1008.1559 "Generalized Extensivity" cond-mat.stat-mech "In order to apply thermodynamics to systems in which entropy is not
extensive, it has become customary to define generalized entropies. While this
approach has been effective, it is not the only possible approach. We suggest
that some systems, including nanosystems, can be investigated by instead
generalizing the concept of extensivity. We begin by reexamining the role of
linearity in the definition of complex physical systems. We show that there is
a generalized form of extensivity that can be defined for a number of
non-linear systems. We further show that a generalization of the principle of
linear superposition is the basis for defining generalized extensivity. We
introduce a definition for the the degree of non-extensivity for systems. We
show that generalized extensivity can be used as a means of understanding
complex physical systems and we propose extending the idea extensivity beyond
thermodynamics to other physical systems, including nanosystems."  2010-08-09 2016-02-19 "['Gray', 'Addison']"
1105.0980 "Wetting film dynamics and stability" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.soft" "Although the wetting films are similar in many aspects to other thin liquid
films, there are some differences in their behavior, too. In contrast to soap
and emulsion films, whose surfaces are homogeneous, solid substrates of wetting
films are heterogeneous as a rule, unless special measures for their
homogenization are taken. Here we mean primarily heterogeneous distribution of
surface energy leading to existence of hydrophobic domains on hydrophilic
surfaces and vice versa. As is known, such hydrophobic domains could play the
role of gas-phase nucleation centers and it is widely accepted nowadays that
nano-bubbles can be formed there. The present paper reviews the effect of
nano-bubbles adhered at solid surface on stability of wetting films. It is
shown that the existence of nano-bubbles is crucial for the lifetime of wetting
films. Another peculiarity typical for hydrophobic solid surface, the so-called
slippage effect, is also investigated and its contribution to the dispersion
equation of capillary waves on wetting films is accounted for." 10.1002/9783527631117.ch6 2011-05-05 2011-12-18 "['Radoev', 'Stoeckelhuber', 'Tsekov', 'Letocart']"
1210.1784 "General relations for quantum gases in two and three dimensions. II.
  Bosons and mixtures" cond-mat.quant-gas "We derive exact general relations between various observables for N bosons
with zero-range interactions, in two or three dimensions, in an arbitrary
external potential. Some of our results are analogous to relations derived
previously for two-component fermions, and involve derivatives of the energy
with respect to the two-body s-wave scattering length a. Moreover, in the
three-dimensional case, where the Efimov effect takes place, the interactions
are characterized not only by a, but also by a three-body parameter R\_t. We
then find additional relations which involve the derivative of the energy with
respect R\_t. In short, this derivative gives the probability to find three
particles close to each other. Although it is evaluated for a totally loss-less
model, it remarkably also gives the three-body loss rate always present in
experiments (due to three-body recombination to deeply bound diatomic
molecules), at least in the limit where the so-called inelasticity parameter
eta is small enough. As an application, we obtain, within the zero-range model
and to first order in eta, an analytic expression for the three-body loss rate
constant for a non-degenerate Bose gas with infinite scattering length. We also
discuss the generalization to arbitrary mixtures of bosons and/or fermions." 10.1103/PhysRevA.86.053633 2012-10-05 2017-05-30 "['Werner', 'Castin']"
1310.1579 "Distribution of lifetimes of kinetochore-microtubule attachments:
  interplay of energy landscape, molecular motors and microtubule
  (de-)polymerization" "physics.bio-ph cond-mat.stat-mech q-bio.SC" "Before a cell divides into two daughter cells, chromosomes are replicated
resulting in two sister chromosomes embracing each other. Each sister
chromosome is bound to a separate proteinous structure, called kinetochore
(kt), that captures the tip of a filamentous protein, called microtubule (MT).
Two oppositely oriented MTs pull the two kts attached to two sister chromosomes
thereby pulling the two sisters away from each other. Here we theoretically
study an even simpler system, namely an isolated kt coupled to a single MT;
this system mimics an {\it in-vitro} experiment where a single kt-MT attachment
is reconstituted using purified extracts from budding yeast. Our models not
only account for the experimentally observed ""catch-bond-like"" behavior of the
kt-MT coupling, but also make new predictions on the probability distribution
of the lifetimes of the attachments. In principle, our new predictions can be
tested by analyzing the data collected in the {\it in-vitro} experiments
provided the experiment is repeated sufficiently large number of times. Our
theory provides a deep insight into the effects of (a) size, (b) energetics,
and (c) stochastic kinetics of the kt-MT coupling on the distribution of the
lifetimes of these attachments." 10.1088/1478-3975/11/3/036004 2013-10-06 2014-03-24 "['Sharma', 'Shtylla', 'Chowdhury']"
1311.4422 "Incorporation of a dc bias in a high-Q 3d microwave cavity" cond-mat.mes-hall "We report a technique for applying a dc bias in a 3d microwave cavity. This
is achieved by isolating the two halves of the cavity with a dielectric and
directly using them as dc electrodes. By embedding a variable capacitance diode
in the cavity, we tune the resonant frequency with a dc voltage at room
temperature, demonstrating the introduction of a dc bias into the 3d cavity
without compromising its high quality factor."  2013-11-18 2017-05-29 "['Yuan', 'Bosman', 'Steele']"
1402.7283 "On SU(2) anomaly and Majorana fermions" "physics.gen-ph cond-mat.str-el" "In this paper a loophole in the SU(2) gauge anomaly is presented. It is shown
that using several topological tools a theory can be designed that implements
the quantization of a single Weyl doublet anomaly free while keeping the
non-abelian character of the particle in the theory. This opens the perspective
for non-Abelian statistics of deconfined particle like objects in 3+1
dimensions and for applications in Quantum Computing. Moreover, if this
loophole cannot be closed, old arguments related to anomaly cancelations must
be reviewed." 10.3390/condmat2020013 2014-02-26 2015-07-04 ['Patrascu']
1405.1697 "A S=1/2 vanadium-based geometrically frustrated spinel system Li2ZnV3O8" cond-mat.str-el "We report the synthesis and characterization of Li2ZnV3O8, which is a new
Zn-doped LiV2O4 system containing only tetravalent vanadium. A Curie-Weiss
susceptibility with a Curie-Weiss temperature of <theta>CW ~214 K suggests the
presence of strong antiferromagnetic correlations in this system. We have
observed a splitting between the zero-field cooled ZFC and field cooled FC
susceptibility curves below 6 K. A peak is present in the ZFC curve around 3.5
K suggestive of spin-freezing . Similarly, a broad hump is also seen in the
inferred magnetic heat capacity around 9 K. The consequent entropy change is
only about 8% of the value expected for an ordered S = 1=2 system. This
reduction indicates continued presence of large disorder in the system in spite
of the large <theta>CW, which might result from strong geometric frustration in
the system. We did not find any temperature T dependence in our 7Li nuclear
magnetic resonance NMR shift down to 6 K (an abrupt change in the shift takes
place below 6 K) though considerable T-dependence has been found in literature
for LiV2O4- undoped or with other Zn/Ti contents. Consistent with the above
observation, the 7Li nuclear spin-lattice relaxation rate 1/T1 is relatively
small and nearly T-independent except a small increase close to the freezing
temperature, once again, small compared to undoped or 10% Zn or 20% Ti-doped
LiV2O4." 10.1088/0953-8984/26/26/265601 2014-05-07 2014-05-13 "['Chakrabarty', 'Mahajan', 'Koteswararao']"
1405.7791 "Numerical modelling of MgB2 conductors for high power AC transmission" cond-mat.supr-con "Cables made of MgB2 superconductors are currently explored as a viable
solution for transporting high electrical power in the AC regime. In order to
be competitive against the DC solution, the cables need to have an acceptable
level of AC losses. In this contribution, we discuss the main aspects relevant
for designing a cable with a sufficiently low AC loss level. To this end, we
perform finite-element-method (FEM) simulations to determine the current and
field distributions and calculate the AC losses of such cable configuration.
For current capacities of 2-5 kA (peak), power cables are assembled from a
relatively small number of MgB2 strands. The performance of such cables
strongly depends on the current and field distributions, which are in turn
influenced by the number and the arrangement of the superconducting components
and also by the magnetic properties of supporting materials. Numerical
simulations can help to test different cable configurations and provide
important insights for optimizing the cable's design. The numerical model
includes the field dependence of the superconductor's critical current density
Jc(B) as well as the non-linear properties of magnetic materials." 10.1016/j.physc.2014.04.037 2014-05-30 2017-05-29 "['Grilli', 'Chervyakov', 'Zermeno', 'Marian', 'Grasso', 'Goldacker', 'Rubbia']"
1406.0964 "The colored Hanbury Brown--Twiss effect" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.quant-gas" "The Hanbury Brown--Twiss effect is one of the celebrated phenomenologies of
modern physics that accommodates equally well classical (interferences of
waves) and quantum (correlations between indistinguishable particles)
interpretations. The effect was discovered in the late thirties with a basic
observation of Hanbury Brown that radio-pulses from two distinct antennas
generate signals on the oscilloscope that wiggle similarly to the naked eye.
When Hanbury Brown and his mathematician colleague Twiss took the obvious step
to propose bringing the effect in the optical range, they met with considerable
opposition as single-photon interferences were deemed impossible. The Hanbury
Brown--Twiss effect is nowadays universally accepted and, being so fundamental,
embodies many subtleties of our understanding of the wave/particle dual nature
of light. Thanks to a novel experimental technique, we report here a
generalized version of the Hanbury Brown--Twiss effect to include the frequency
of the detected light, or, from the particle point of view, the energy of the
detected photons. In addition to the known tendencies of indistinguishable
photons to arrive together on the detector, we find that photons of different
colors present the opposite characteristic of avoiding each others. We
postulate that fermions can be similarly brought to exhibit positive
(boson-like) correlations by frequency filtering." 10.1038/srep37980 2014-06-04 2016-08-26 "['Silva', 'Muñoz', 'Ballarini', 'Tudela', 'de Giorgi', 'Gigli', 'West', 'Pfeiffer', 'del Valle', 'Sanvitto', 'Laussy']"
1406.4244 "Roebel cables from REBCO coated conductors: a one-century-old concept
  for the superconductivity of the future" "cond-mat.supr-con physics.ins-det" "Energy applications employing high-temperature superconductors (HTS), such as
motors/generators, transformers, transmission lines and fault current limiters,
are usually operated in the alternate current (AC) regime. In order to be
efficient, the HTS devices need to have a sufficiently low value of AC loss, in
addition to the necessary current-carrying capacity. Most applications are
operated with currents beyond the current capacity of single conductors and
consequently require cabled conductor solutions with much higher current
carrying capacity, from a few kA to up to 20-30 kA for large hydro-generators.
A century ago, in 1914, Ludwig Roebel invented a low-loss cable design for
copper cables, which was successively named after him. The main idea behind
Roebel cables is to separate the current in different strands and to provide a
full transposition of the strands along the cable direction. Nowadays, these
cables are commonly used in the stator of large generators. Based on the same
design concept of their conventional material counterparts, HTS Roebel cables
from REBCO coated conductors were first manufactured at the Karlsruhe Institute
of Technology (KIT) and have been successively developed in a number of
varieties that provide all the required technical features such as fully
transposed strands, high transport currents and low AC losses, yet retaining
enough flexibility for a specific cable design. In the past few years a large
number of scientific papers have been published on the concept, manufacturing
and characterization of such cables. Times are therefore mature for a review of
those results. The goal is to provide an overview and a succinct and
easy-to-consult guide for users, developers, and manufacturers of this kind of
HTS cables." 10.1088/0953-2048/27/9/093001 2014-06-17 2017-05-29 "['Goldacker', 'Grilli', 'Pardo', 'Kario', 'Schlachter', 'Vojenciak']"
1406.4990 "AC loss and coupling currents in YBCO coated conductors with varying
  number of filaments" cond-mat.supr-con "Striation of HTS coated conductors (CCs) as a way to reduce their
magnetization AC losses has been the subject of intense research in the past
years by several groups. While the principle of this approach is well
understood, its practical application on commercial material to be used in
power application is still far to be implemented due to manufacturing and
technological constraints. Recent advances in tape quality and striation
technology are now enabling systematic investigations of the influence of the
number of filaments on AC loss reduction with a consistency that was not
available in the past. In this work we demonstrate the technological
feasibility of reducing the magnetization losses of commercially available CC
by striating them into a high number of filaments (up to 120). The loss
reduction exceeds one order of magnitude and does not come at the expense of
current-carrying capability: samples with 10 and 20 filaments are unaffected by
the striation process, while samples with 80 and 120 filaments still retain 80
and 70% of the current-carrying potential, respectively. We also investigate
the transverse resistivity in order to understand the paths followed by the
coupling currents: we found that the coupling current prevalently flows in the
metallic substrate, rather than in and out of the filaments. Finally, we use
oxidation as a method to reduce the coupling currents and losses. The
contribution of this work is three-fold: 1) It describes the know-how to
produce a large number of high quality striations in commercially available
CCs, greatly reducing their losses without extensively degrading their
transport properties; 2) It provides a comprehensive characterization of said
samples (e.g. measurements in a wide frequency range, transverse resistance
profiles, influence of oxidation on DC and AC behavior); 3) It provides new
insight on the patterns of the coupling currents." 10.1109/TASC.2014.2338320 2014-06-19 2017-05-29 "['Demencik', 'Vojenciak', 'Kario', 'Nast', 'Jung', 'Goldacker', 'Grilli']"
1408.0616 "DC and AC Characterization of Pancake Coils Made from Roebel-Assembled
  Coated Conductor Cable" cond-mat.supr-con "Roebel cables made of HTS coated conductors can carry high currents with a
compact design and reduced AC losses. They are therefore good candidates for
manufacturing coils for HTS applications such as motors and generators. In this
paper we present the experimental DC and AC characterization of several coils
assembled from a 5 meter long Roebel cable built at KIT, which differ in the
number of turns and turn-to-turn spacing. Our experiments, supported by
finite-element method (FEM) calculations, show that a more tightly wound Roebel
coil, despite having a lower critical (and therefore operating) current, can
produce a higher magnetic field than a loosely wound one. For a given magnetic
field produced at the coil's center, all the coils have similar AC losses, with
the exception of the most loosely wound one, which has much higher losses due
to the relatively large current needed to produce the desired field. The
experiments presented in this paper are carried out on the geometry of pancake
coils made of Roebel cables, but they are exemplary of a more general strategy
that, coupling experiments and numerical simulations, can be used to optimize
the coil design with respect to different parameters, such as tape quantity,
size, or AC loss, the relative importance of which is dictated by the specific
application." 10.1109/TASC.2014.2349512 2014-08-04 2017-05-29 "['Kario', 'Vojenčiak', 'Grilli', 'Kling', 'Jung', 'Brand', 'Kudymow', 'Willms', 'Walschburger', 'Zermeno', 'Goldacker']"
1408.1894 "In-plane conductivity of a layered large-bipolaron liquid" cond-mat.supr-con "Distinctive normal-state properties of cuprate superconductors follow from
their charge carriers forming a large-bipolaron liquid. The very weak
scattering of the slow-moving heavy-massed excitations of the liquid by
acoustic phonons yields a scattering rate that is less than the Debye
frequency. The moderate liquid mobility, greater than 1 cm2/V-sec at 300 K,
results as the weak scattering of the liquid compensates for its large mass. In
resolution of a long-standing dilemma, the dc resistivity resulting from
scattering by acoustic phonons remains nearly proportional to temperature to
well below the Debye temperature. Above the Debye frequency the
frequency-dependent conductivity is dominated by excitation and
photo-ionization of the self-trapped electronic carriers of the
large-bipolarons. Below the Debye frequency the frequency-dependent
conductivity is dominated by the Drude-like collective motion of the
large-bipolaron liquid. The gap between these two domains sharpens with
decreasing temperature as phonon scattering of the liquid diminishes. The
high-frequency electronic excitations survive in the superconducting state." 10.1080/14786435.2015.1007110 2014-08-08 2015-01-13 ['Emin']
1408.3797 "The remote Maxwell demon as energy down-converter" "cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "It is demonstrated that Maxwell's demon can be used to allow a machine to
extract energy from a heat bath by use of information that is processed by the
demon at a remote location. The model proposed here effectively replaces
transmission of energy by transmission of information. For that we use a
feedback protocol that enables a net gain by stimulating emission in selected
fluctuations around thermal equilibrium. We estimate the down conversion rate
and the efficiency of energy extraction from the heat bath." 10.1007/s10701-015-9981-7 2014-08-17  ['Hossenfelder']
1409.0337 "Calculation of multichannel reactions in the four-nucleon system above
  breakup threshold" "nucl-th cond-mat.quant-gas nucl-ex physics.atom-ph" "Exact four-body equations of Alt, Grassberger and Sandhas are solved for
neutron-${}^3\mathrm{He}$ and proton-${}^3\mathrm{H}$ scattering in the energy
regime above the four-nucleon breakup threshold. Cross sections and spin
observables for elastic, transfer, charge-exchange, and breakup reactions are
calculated using realistic nucleon-nucleon interaction models, including the
one with effective many-nucleon forces due to explicit $\Delta$-isobar
excitation. The experimental data are described reasonably well with only few
exceptions such as vector analyzing powers." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.113.102502 2014-09-01  "['Deltuva', 'Fonseca']"
1409.2624 "Modeling and simulation of termination resistances in superconducting
  cables" cond-mat.supr-con "We address the problem of modeling termination resistances which are largely
responsible for the uneven distribution of currents in superconducting cables.
For such purpose we present three DC models. In a first model a 0D circuit-like
approach considering a continuous E-J relationship is presented. A second model
uses the 2D H-Formulation of Maxwell's equations, with a new contribution to
the electric field term that takes into account the voltage drop due to
termination resistances. A third model, based on the 3D H-Formulation of
Maxwell's equations, uses a novel technique to simulate both the termination
resistances and the superconducting cable within a compact framework that
calculates both contributions using two non-connected domains. Advantages and
disadvantages of each model are discussed. Particular applications for which a
given model is best fitted are also considered. The models' predictions are in
good agreement with experimental results for a stacked-tape cable composed of 4
HTS tapes. Overall, this work presents a palette of three different numerical
tools for calculating the current distribution in cables composed of multiples
tapes, where the termination resistance is also taken into account. The choice
of one model over another depends on the particular application and on the
degree of precision needed" 10.1088/0953-2048/27/12/124013 2014-09-09 2017-05-29 "['Zermeno', 'Krüger', 'Takayasu', 'Grilli']"
1409.2998 "TASEP on parallel tracks: effects of mobile bottlenecks in fixed
  segments" "cond-mat.stat-mech nlin.AO" "We study the flux of totally asymmetric simple exclusion processes (TASEPs)
on a twin co-axial square tracks. In this biologically motivated model the
particles in each track act as mobile bottlenecks against the movement of the
particles in the other although the particle are not allowed to move out of
their respective tracks. So far as the outer track is concerned, the particles
on the inner track act as bottlenecks only over a set of fixed segments of the
outer track, in contrast to site-associated and particle-associated quenched
randomness in the earlier models of disordered TASEP. In a special limiting
situation the movement of particles in the outer track mimic a TASEP with a
""point-like"" immobile (i.e., quenched) defect where phase segregation of the
particles is known to take place. The length of the inner track as well as the
strength and number density of the mobile bottlenecks moving on it are the
control parameters that determine the nature of spatio-temporal organization of
particles on the outer track. Variation of these control parameters allow
variation of the width of the phase-coexistence region on the flux-density
plane of the outer track. Some of these phenomena are likely to survive even in
the future extensions intended for studying traffic-like collective phenomena
of polymerase motors on double-stranded DNA." 10.1016/j.physa.2015.02.095 2014-09-10 2017-05-28 "['Sinha', 'Chowdhury']"
1409.7318 "Calculation of neutron-${}^3$He scattering up to 30 MeV" "nucl-th cond-mat.quant-gas nucl-ex" "Microscopic calculations of four-body collisions become very challenging in
the energy regime above the threshold for four free particles. The
neutron-${}^3$He scattering is an example of such process with elastic,
rearrangement, and breakup channels. We aim to calculate observables for
elastic and inelastic neutron-${}^3$He reactions up to 30 MeV neutron energy
using realistic nuclear force models. We solve the Alt, Grassberger, and
Sandhas (AGS) equations for the four-nucleon transition operators in the
momentum-space framework. The complex-energy method with special integration
weights is applied to deal with the complicated singularities in the kernel of
AGS equations. We obtain fully converged results for the differential cross
section and neutron analyzing power in the neutron-${}^3$He elastic scattering
as well as the total cross sections for inelastic reactions. Several realistic
potentials are used, including the one with an explicit $\Delta$ isobar
excitation. There is reasonable agreement between the theoretical predictions
and experimental data for the neutron-${}^3$He scattering in the considered
energy regime. The most remarkable disagreements are seen around the minimum of
the differential cross section and the extrema of the neutron analyzing power.
The breakup cross section increases with energy exceeding rearrangement
channels above 23 MeV." 10.1103/PhysRevC.90.044002 2014-09-25  "['Deltuva', 'Fonseca']"
1411.0933 "New Experimental Method for Investigating AC-losses in Concentric HTS
  Power Cables" cond-mat.supr-con "The optimization of a HTS cable design with respect to AC-losses is of
crucial importance for the economic viability of the respective concept.
However the experimental determination of AC-losses is not straightforward
since for short cable samples the distribution of current among the
super-conducting tapes is mainly determined by the contact resistances of the
individual tapes. The resulting inhomogeneous current distribution definitely
falsifies the results. To solve this experimental problem we present a new
experimental technique. The setup is a 2m-long three phase concentric cable
model for which, within each phase, the superconducting tapes (up to 30) are
connected in series. The Cu-braid backwards conductors were assembled in a
rotational symmetric cage type arrangement, such that their self fields at the
cable cancel. If experimental peculiarities of this setup, as the strong
inductive coupling between the phases and the suitable positioning of the
voltage contact leads, are correctly taken into account, the currents can be
controlled independently and the electrical properties of the cable can be
measured unambiguously. In this paper preliminary results are presented. The
work is part of the German government funded cable project AMPACITY (1 km / 20
kV/ 2 kA)" 10.1109/TASC.2014.2366373 2014-11-04 2017-05-29 "['Elschner', 'Demencik', 'Douine', 'Grilli', 'Kudymow', 'Stemmle', 'Strauss', 'Zermeno', 'Goldacker']"
1411.1551 "3-D Numerical Simulations of Twisted Stacked Tape Cables" cond-mat.supr-con "Different magnet applications require compact high current cables. Among the
proposed solutions, the Twisted Stacked Tape Cable (TSTC) is easy to
manufacture and has very high tape length usage efficiency. In this kind of
cables the tapes are closely packed, so that their electromagnetic interaction
is very strong and determines the overall performance of the cable. Numerical
models are necessary tools to precisely evaluate this interaction and to
predict the cable's behavior, e.g. in terms of effective critical current and
magnetization currents. For this purpose, we developed a fully
three-dimensional model of a TSTC, which not only takes into account the
twisted geometry of these cables, but is also able to account for the contact
resistances of the current terminations. The latter can have profound influence
on the way the current is partitioned among the tapes, especially on short
laboratory prototypes. In this paper, we first use the numerical model to
compute the critical current and the magnetization AC loss of a twisted tape,
showing the differences with the case of a straight tape. Then, we use it to
calculate the current distribution in a TSTC cable, comparing the results with
those experimentally obtained on a cable composed of four straight stacked
tapes. The results show the ability of the model to simulate twisted conductors
and constitutes a first step toward the simulation of TSTC in high-field magnet
applications. The presented modeling approach is not restricted to the TSTC
geometry, but may be used for any cable configuration with periodical
translational symmetry." 10.1109/TASC.2014.2368715 2014-11-06 2017-05-29 "['Krüger', 'Zermeño', 'Takayasu', 'Grilli']"
1412.2312 "Potential and limits of numerical modelling for supporting the
  development of HTS devices" cond-mat.supr-con "In this paper, we present a general review of the status of numerical
modelling applied to the design of high temperature superconductor (HTS)
devices. The importance of this tool is emphasized at the beginning of the
paper, followed by formal definitions of the notions of models, numerical
methods and numerical models. The state-of-the-art models are listed, and the
main limitations of existing numerical models are reported. Those limitations
are shown to concern two aspects: one the one hand, the numerical performance
(i.e. speed) of the methods themselves is not good enough yet; on the other
hand, the availability of model file templates, material data and benchmark
problems is clearly insufficient. Paths for improving those elements are
provided in the paper. Besides the technical aspects of the research to be
further pursued, for instance in adaptive numerical methods, most
recommendations command for an increased collective effort for sharing files,
data, codes and their documentation." 10.1088/0953-2048/28/4/043002 2014-12-06 2017-05-29 "['Sirois', 'Grilli']"
1502.00219 "Effects of Sol concentration on the structural and optical properties of
  SnO2 Nanoparticle" cond-mat.mes-hall "In this paper, the effects of changes in Sol concentration on the structural
and optical properties of SnO2 Nanoparticles are studied through the Sol-Gel
method. SnO2 Nanoparticles are produced from different SnO2 solution
concentrations (0.1, 0.3 and 0.5 mol/L) at room temperature. X-ray diffraction
(XRD) and scanning electron microscopy (SEM) analysis is used to investigate
the effects of changes in Sol concentration on the crystalline and surface
morphology of Nanoparticles. The XRD pattern shows that the particles are in
the standard tetragonal phase of SnO2. The crystallites size are 11.7nm,
18.8nm, and 74.8nm, for 0.1 M, 0.3M and 0.5 M of concentration respectively.
The average size of SnO2 particles decreases by a reduction in the Sol
concentration. The band gap value is 4.07ev, 4.28ev and 4.36ev for 0.1M, 0.3M
and 0.5M of concentration respectively. The UV-visible analysis shows that
decreasing the Sol concentration will cause the absorption edge shift to the
shorter wavelengths, because decreasing the Sol concentration will reduce the
Nanoparticles size, and smaller Nanoparticles size absorb shorter wavelengths
better and also increase the band gap."  2015-02-01 2017-06-06 "['Razeghizadeh', 'Zalaghi', 'Kazeminezhad', 'Rafee']"
1502.05210 "Performance Estimation for Two-Dimensional Brownian Rotary Ratchet
  Systems" cond-mat.stat-mech "Within the context of the Brownian ratchet model, a molecular rotary system
was studied that can perform unidirectional rotations induced by linearly
polarized ac fields, and produce positive work under loads. The model is based
on the Langevin equation for a particle in a two-dimensional (2D) three-tooth
ratchet potential of threefold symmetry. The performance of the system is
characterized by the coercive torque, i.e., the strength of the load competing
with the torque induced by the ac driving field, and the energy efficiency in
force conversion from the driving field to torque. We propose a master equation
for coarse-grained states, which takes into account boundary motion between
states, and develop a kinetic description to estimate mean angular momentum
(MAM) and powers relevant to the energy balance equation. The framework of
analysis incorporates several 2D characteristics, and is applicable to a wide
class of models of smooth 2D ratchet potential. We confirm that the obtained
expressions for MAM, power, and efficiency of the model can predict qualitative
behaviors. We also discuss the usefulness of the torque/power relationship for
experimental analyses, and propose a characteristic for 2D ratchet systems." 10.7566/JPSJ.84.044004 2015-02-18  "['Tutu', 'Horita', 'Ouchi']"
1502.06722 "Lamplighter groups, de Bruijn graphs, spider-web graphs and their
  spectra" "math.CO cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.GR math.MP" "We describe the infinite family of spider-web graphs $S_{k,M,N }$, $k \geq
2$, $M \geq 1$ and $N \geq 0$, studied in physical literature as tensor
products of well-known de Brujin graphs $B_{k,N}$ and cyclic graphs $C_M$ and
show that these graphs are Schreier graphs of the lamplighter groups $L_k =
Z/kZ \wr Z$. This allows us to compute their spectra and to identify the
infinite limit of $S_{k,M,N}$, as $N, M \to\infty$, with the Cayley graph of
the lamplighter group $L_k$.
  This is the final version of the article, taking in account comments from the
referees and with an extended introduction." 10.1088/1751-8113/49/20/205004 2015-02-24 2017-05-29 "['Grigorchuk', 'Leemann', 'Nagnibeda']"
1503.04690 "Different regimes of the uniaxial elongation of electrically charged
  viscoelastic jets due to dissipative air drag" "cond-mat.soft physics.flu-dyn" "We investigate the effects of dissipative air drag on the dynamics of
electrified jets in the initial stage of the electrospinning process. The main
idea is to use a Brownian noise to model air drag effects on the uniaxial
elongation of the jets. The developed numerical model is used to probe the
dynamics of electrified polymer jets at different conditions of air drag force,
showing that the dynamics of the charged jet is strongly biased by the presence
of air drag forces. This study provides prospective beneficial implications for
improving forthcoming electrospinning experiments." 10.1016/j.mechrescom.2015.06.014 2015-03-16 2015-07-01 "['Lauricella', 'Pontrelli', 'Coluzza', 'Pisignano', 'Succi']"
1505.04170 "Orbital selectivity and emergent superconducting state from
  quasi-degenerate $s-$ and $d-$wave pairing channels in iron-based
  superconductors" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "A major puzzle about the nature of the iron-based superconductivity appears
in the case of the alkaline iron selenides. Compared to the iron pnictides,
these systems have only electron Fermi pockets (i.e. no hole Fermi pockets) but
comparable superconducting transition temperatures. The challenge lies in
reconciling the two basic experimental features of their superconducting state:
a node-less gap and the existence of a resonance in the spin excitation
spectrum. We propose a mechanism based on reconstructing two quasi-degenerate
pairing states, one in an $s$-wave $A_{1g}$ channel that is fully gapped, and
the other in a $d$-wave $B_{1g}$ channel whose pairing function changes sign
across the electron Fermi pockets at the Brillouin-zone boundary. The resulting
intermediate pairing state, which we call an orbital-selective $s \times
\tau_3$ state, incorporates both of the above two properties. When the leading
spin-singlet pairing is in the $d_{xz}, d_{yz}$ orbital subspace, this state
retains the $s$-wave form factor but has a $B_{1g}$ symmetry due to an internal
$\tau_3$ structure in the orbital space. Within a five-orbital $t-J_{1}-J_{2}$
model with orbital-selective exchange couplings, we show that the proposed
pairing state is energetically competitive over a finite range of control
parameters. We calculate the dynamical spin susceptibility in the
orbital-selective $s \times \tau_3$ superconducting state and show that a spin
resonance arises and has the characteristics of observed by inelastic neutron
experiments in the alkaline iron selenides. More generally, the formation of
the orbital-selective $s \times \tau_3$ state represents a novel means of
relieving the quasi-degeneracy between $s-$ and $d-$wave pairing states, which
is a hitherto unsuspected alternative to the conventional route of linearly
superposing the two into a time-reversal symmetry breaking $s+id$ state." 10.1038/s41535-017-0027-6 2015-05-15  "['Nica', 'Yu', 'Si']"
1505.05666 "Evolution and dimensional crossover from the bulk subbands in
  ABC-stacked graphene to a three-dimensional Dirac cone structure in
  rhombohedral graphite" cond-mat.mes-hall "The band structure of ABC-stacked N-layer graphene comprises topologically
corresponding flat surface and gapped bulk subbands, as a consequence of the
unique stacking configuration. In this paper, the bulk subbands are for the
first times ever obtained for arbitrary N. A non-perturbative effective
Hamiltonian closed in the bulk subspace is derived and used. The gapped bulk
subbands are shown to evolve towards the zero energy with increasing N and in
the infinite limit, they touch linearly along a circle. This outcome is a
manifestation of the dimensional crossover to a three-dimensional Dirac cone
structure known to exist in the bulk of rhombohedral graphite. The Dirac
points, forming continuous nodal lines in a spiraling fashion, are projected
onto the circle, within which the surface subbands are confined and flatten." 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.075437 2015-05-21 2017-05-30 "['Ho', 'Chang', 'Lin']"
1505.07988 "The dynamics of a self-phoretic Janus swimmer near a wall" cond-mat.soft "We study the effect of a nearby planar wall on the propulsion of a phoretic
Janus micro-swimmer driven by asymmetric reactions on its surface which absorb
reactants and generate products. We show that the behaviour of these swimmers
near a wall can be classified ${\bf based \ on \ whether}$ the swimmers are
${\bf mainly}$ absorbing or producing reaction solutes ${\bf and \ whether}$
their swimming directions are such that the inert or active face is at the
front. We find that the wall-induced solute gradients always promote swimmer
propulsion along the wall while the effect of hydrodynamics leads to
re-orientation of the swimming direction away from the wall." 10.1209/0295-5075/111/48008 2015-05-29  "['Ibrahim', 'Liverpool']"
1506.01933 "Phase transitions at high energy vindicate negative microcanonical
  temperature" cond-mat.stat-mech "The notion of negative absolute temperature emerges naturally from
Boltzmann's definition of ""surface"" microcanonical entropy in isolated systems
with a bounded energy density. Recently, the well-posedness of such construct
has been challenged, on account that only the Gibbs ""volume"" entropy ---and the
strictly positive temperature thereof--- would give rise to a consistent
thermodynamics. Here we present analytical and numerical evidence that
Boltzmann microcanonical entropy provides a consistent thermometry for both
signs of the temperature. In particular, we show that Boltzmann (negative)
temperature allows the description of phase transitions occurring at high
energy densities, at variance with Gibbs temperature.
  Our results apply to nonlinear lattice models standardly employed to describe
the propagation of light in arrays of coupled waveguides and the dynamics of
ultracold gases trapped in optical lattices. Optically induced photonic
lattices, characterized by saturable nonlinearity, are particularly appealing
because they offer the possibility of observing states ---and phase
transitions--- at both signs of the temperature." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052135 2015-06-05 2015-08-15 "['Buonsante', 'Franzosi', 'Smerzi']"
1507.07376 "Scattering from surface fractals in terms of composing mass fractals" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.mes-hall" "We argue that a finite iteration of any surface fractal can be composed of
mass-fractal iterations of the same fractal dimension. Within this assertion,
the scattering amplitude of surface fractal is shown to be a sum of the
amplitudes of composing mass fractals. Various approximations for the
scattering intensity of surface fractal are considered. It is shown that
small-angle scattering (SAS) from a surface fractal can be explained in terms
of power-law distribution of sizes of objects composing the fractal (internal
polydispersity), provided the distance between objects is much larger than
their size for each composing mass fractal. The power-law decay of the
scattering intensity $I(q) \propto q^{D_{\mathrm{s}}-6}$, where $2 <
D_{\mathrm{s}} < 3$ is the surface fractal dimension of the system, is realized
as a non-coherent sum of scattering amplitudes of three-dimensional objects
composing the fractal and obeying a power-law distribution $d N(r) \propto
r^{-\tau} dr$, with $D_{\mathrm{s}}=\tau-1$. The distribution is continuous for
random fractals and discrete for deterministic fractals. We suggest a model of
surface deterministic fractal, the surface Cantor-like fractal, which is a sum
of three-dimensional Cantor dusts at various iterations, and study its
scattering properties. The present analysis allows us to extract additional
information from SAS data, such us the edges of the fractal region, the fractal
iteration number and the scaling factor." 10.1107/S1600576717005696 2015-07-27 2016-09-28 "['Cherny', 'Anitas', 'Osipov', 'Kuklin']"
1508.00742 "General classical and quantum-mechanical description of magnetic
  resonance: An application to electric-dipole-moment experiments" "nucl-th cond-mat.other hep-ph hep-th" "A general theoretical description of a magnetic resonance is presented. This
description is necessary for a detailed analysis of spin dynamics in
electric-dipole-moment experiments in storage rings. General formulas
describing a behavior of all components of the polarization vector at the
magnetic resonance are obtained for an arbitrary initial polarization. These
formulas are exact on condition that the nonresonance rotating field is
neglected. The spin dynamics is also calculated at frequencies far from
resonance with allowance for both rotating fields. A general quantum-mechanical
analysis of the spin evolution at the magnetic resonance is fulfilled and the
full agreement between the classical and quantum-mechanical approaches is
shown. Quasimagnetic resonances for particles and nuclei moving in
noncontinuous perturbing fields of accelerators and storage rings are
considered. Distinguishing features of quasimagnetic resonances in storage ring
electric-dipole-moment experiments are investigated in detail. The exact
formulas for the effect caused by the electric dipole moment are derived. The
difference between the resonance effects conditioned by the rf electric-field
flipper and the rf Wien filter is found and is calculated for the first time.
The existence of this difference is crucial for the establishment of a consent
between analytical derivations and computer simulations and for checking spin
tracking programs. Main systematical errors are considered." 10.1140/epjc/s10052-017-4845-2 2015-08-04 2017-03-19 ['Silenko']
1509.05860 "Mott transition in a metallic liquid - Gutzwiller molecular dynamics
  simulations" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We present a formulation of quantum molecular dynamics that includes electron
correlation effects via the Gutzwiller method. Our new scheme enables the study
of the dynamical behavior of atoms and molecules with strong electron
interactions. The Gutzwiller approach goes beyond the conventional mean-field
treatment of the intra-atomic electron repulsion and captures crucial
correlation effects such as band narrowing and electron localization. We use
Gutzwiller quantum molecular dynamics to investigate the Mott transition in the
liquid phase of a single-band metal and uncover intriguing structural and
transport properties of the atoms." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.226401 2015-09-19  "['Chern', 'Barros', 'Batista', 'Kress', 'Kotliar']"
1510.02982 "Universal edge information from wave-function deformation" "cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "It is well known that the bulk physics of a topological phase constrains its
possible edge physics through the bulk-edge correspondence. Therefore, the
different types of edge theories that a topological phase can host constitute a
universal piece of data which can be used to characterize topological order. In
this paper, we argue that, beginning from only the fixed-point wave function
(FPW) of a nonchiral topological phase and by locally deforming it, all
possible edge theories can be extracted from its entanglement Hamiltonian (EH).
We give a general argument, and concretely illustrate our claim by deforming
the FPW of the Wen-plaquette model, the quantum double of $\mathbb{Z}_2$. In
that case, we show that the possible EHs of the deformed FPW reflect the known
possible types of edge theories, which are generically gapped, but gapless if
translational symmetry is preserved. We stress that our results do not require
an underlying Hamiltonian--thus, this lends support to the notion that a
topological phase is indeed characterized by only a set of quantum states and
can be studied through its FPWs." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.235110 2015-10-10 2017-06-06 "['Ho', 'Cincio', 'Moradi', 'Vidal']"
1510.07430 "A Multispecies Exclusion Model Inspired By Transcriptional Interference" "physics.bio-ph cond-mat.stat-mech nlin.AO q-bio.SC" "We introduce exclusion models of two distinguishable species of hard rods
with their distinct sites of entry and exit under open boundary conditions. In
the first model both species of rods move in the same direction whereas in the
other two models they move in the opposite direction. These models are
motivated by the biological phenomenon known as Transcriptional Interference.
Therefore, the rules for the kinetics of the models, particularly the rules for
the outcome of the encounter of the rods, are also formulated to mimic those
observed in Transcriptional Interference. By a combination of mean-field theory
and computer simulation of these models we demonstrate how the flux of one
species of rods is completely switched off by the other. Exploring the
parameter space of the model we also establish the conditions under which
switch-like regulation of two fluxes is possible; from the extensive analysis
we discover more than one possible mechanism of this phenomenon." 10.1088/1742-5468/aa50dd 2015-10-26 2017-05-31 "['Ghosh', 'Bameta', 'Ghanti', 'Chowdhury']"
1511.00739 "Vibrational Bandstructures of Bottom-Up Built Nanoscale Phononic
  Crystals" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The vibrational properties of two-dimensional phononic crystals are studied
with large-scale molecular dynamics simulations and finite element method
calculation. The vibrational band structure derived from the molecular dynamics
simulations shows the existence of partial acoustic band gaps along the
$\Gamma$-M direction. The band structure is in excellent agreement with the
results from the finite element model, proving that molecular dynamics
simulations can be used to study the vibrational properties of such complex
systems. An analysis of the structure of the vibrational modes reveals how the
acoustic modes deviate from the homogeneous bulk behaviour for shorter
wavelengths and hints towards a decoupling of vibrations in the phononic
crystal." 10.1002/pssa.201600387 2015-11-02 2017-05-29 ['Meyer']
1511.05141 "Extended slow dynamical regime close to the many-body localization
  transition" cond-mat.dis-nn "Many-body localization is characterized by a slow logarithmic growth of the
entanglement entropy after a global quantum quench while the local memory of an
initial density imbalance remains at infinite time. We investigate how much the
proximity of a many-body localized phase can influence the dynamics in the
delocalized ergodic regime where thermalization is expected. Using an exact
Krylov space technique, the out-of-equilibrium dynamics of the random-field
Heisenberg chain is studied up to $L=28$ sites, starting from an initially
unentangled high-energy product state. Within most of the delocalized phase, we
find a sub-ballistic entanglement growth $S(t)\propto t^{1/z}$ with a
disorder-dependent exponent $z\ge1$, in contrast with the pure ballistic growth
$z=1$ of clean systems. At the same time, anomalous relaxation is also observed
for the spin imbalance ${\cal{I}}(t)\propto t^{-\zeta}$ with a continuously
varying disorder-dependent exponent $\zeta$, vanishing at the transition. This
provides a clear experimental signature for detecting this non-conventional
regime." 10.1103/PhysRevB.93.060201 2015-11-16 2017-05-29 "['Luitz', 'Laflorencie', 'Alet']"
1512.01590 "Kondo screening in two-dimensional $p$-type transition-metal
  dichalcogenides" cond-mat.str-el "Systems with strong spin orbit coupling support a number of new phases of
matter and novel phenomena. This work focuses on the interplay of spin orbit
coupling and interactions in yielding correlated phenomena in two dimensional
transition metal dichalcogenides. In particular we explore the physics of Kondo
screening resulting from the lack of centro-symmetry, large spin splitting and
spin valley locking in hole doped systems. The key ingredients are i) valley
dependent spin-momentum locking perpendicular to the two dimensional crystal;
ii) single nondegenerate Fermi surface per valley, and iii) nontrivial Berry
curvature associated with the low energy bands. The resulting Kondo resonance
has a finite triplet component and nontrivial momentum space structure which
facilitates new approaches to both probe and manipulate the correlated state.
Using a variational wave function and the numerical renormalization group
approaches we study the nature of the Kondo resonance both in the absence and
presence of circularly polarized light. The latter induces an imbalance in the
population of the two valleys leading to novel magnetic phenomena in the
correlated state." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.075103 2015-12-04 2017-06-02 "['Phillips', 'Aji']"
1512.06374 "Piezo Voltage Controlled Planar Hall Effect Devices" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "The electrical control of the magnetization switching in ferromagnets is
highly desired for future spintronic applications. Here we report on hybrid
piezoelectric (PZT) /ferromagnetic (Co2FeAl) devices in which the planar Hall
voltage in the ferromagnetic layer is tuned solely by piezo voltages. The
change of planar Hall voltage is associated with magnetization switching
through 90 in the plane under piezo voltages. Room temperature magnetic NOT and
NOR gates are demonstrated based on the piezo voltage controlled Co2FeAl planar
Hall effect devices without the external magnetic field. Our demonstration may
lead to the realization of both information storage and processing using
ferromagnetic materials." 10.1038/srep28458 2015-12-20 2016-07-29 "['Zhang', 'Meng', 'Yang', 'Edmonds', 'Zhang', 'Cai', 'Sheng', 'Zhang', 'Ji', 'Zhao', 'Wang']"
1601.00403 "Competing states for the fractional quantum Hall effect in the
  1/3-filled second Landau level" cond-mat.str-el "In this work, we investigate the nature of the fractional quantum Hall state
in the 1/3-filled second Landau level (SLL) at filling factor $\nu=7/3$ (and
8/3 in the presence of the particle-hole symmetry) via exact diagonalization in
both torus and spherical geometries. Specifically, we compute the overlap
between the exact 7/3 ground state and various competing states including (i)
the Laughlin state, (ii) the fermionic Haffnian state, (iii) the
antisymmetrized product state of two composite fermion seas at 1/6 filling, and
(iv) the particle-hole (PH) conjugate of the $Z_4$ parafermion state. All these
trial states are constructed according to a guiding principle called the
bilayer mapping approach, where a trial state is obtained as the
antisymmetrized projection of a bilayer quantum Hall state with interlayer
distance $d$ as a variational parameter. Under the proper understanding of the
ground-state degeneracy in the torus geometry, the $Z_4$ parafermion state can
be obtained as the antisymmetrized projection of the Halperin (330) state.
Similarly, it is proved in this work that the fermionic Haffnian state can be
obtained as the antisymmetrized projection of the Halperin (551) state. It is
shown that, while extremely accurate at sufficiently large positive Haldane
pseudopotential variation $\delta V_1^{(1)}$, the Laughlin state loses its
overlap with the exact 7/3 ground state significantly at $\delta V_1^{(1)}
\simeq 0$. At slightly negative $\delta V_1^{(1)}$, it is shown that the
PH-conjugated $Z_4$ parafermion state has a substantial overlap with the exact
7/3 ground state, which is the highest among the above four trial states."  2016-01-04 2017-05-26 "['Jeong', 'Lu', 'Lee', 'Hashimoto', 'Chung', 'Park']"
1601.02723 "Non-locally sensing the magnetic states of nanoscale antiferromagnets
  with an atomic spin sensor" cond-mat.mes-hall "The ability to sense the magnetic state of individual magnetic nano-objects
is a key capability for powerful applications ranging from readout of
ultra-dense magnetic memory to the measurement of spins in complex structures
with nanometer precision. Magnetic nano-objects require extremely sensitive
sensors and detection methods. Here we create an atomic spin sensor consisting
of three Fe atoms and show that it can detect nanoscale antiferromagnets
through minute surface-mediated magnetic interaction. Coupling, even to an
object with no net spin and having vanishing dipolar stray field, modifies the
transition matrix element between two spin states of the Fe-atom-based spin
sensor that changes the sensor's spin relaxation time. The sensor can detect
nanoscale antiferromagnets at up to three nanometers distance and achieves an
energy resolution of 10 micro-electronvolts surpassing the thermal limit of
conventional scanning probe spectroscopy. This scheme permits simultaneous
sensing of multiple antiferromagnets with a single spin sensor integrated onto
the surface." 10.1126/sciadv.1603137 2016-01-11 2017-04-05 "['Yan', 'Malavolti', 'Burgess', 'Droghetti', 'Rubio', 'Loth']"
1601.03324 "Stepwise quantum phonon pumping in plasmon-enhanced Raman scattering" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics quant-ph" "Plasmon-enhanced Raman scattering (PERS) becomes nonlinear when phonon
pumping and phonon-stimulated scattering come into play. It is fundamental to
the understanding of PERS and its photobleaching behavior. By quantization of
the molecular vibration coherent state into phonon number states, we
theoretically predict a stepwise dependence of PERS intensity on laser power.
Experimental evidence is presented by measuring a monolayer of malachite green
isothiocyanate molecules sandwiched in individual gold nanosphere-plane
antennas, under radially polarized laser excitation of sub-microWatt powers."  2016-01-13 2017-05-30 "['Yang', 'Long', 'Wang']"
1601.06006 "Parity-preserving light-matter system mediates effective two-body
  interactions" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "We study the equilibrium and non-equilibrium physics of two qubits
interacting through an ultrastrong coupled qubit-cavity system. By tuning the
qubits energy gap while keeping the ultrastrong coupling system to its ground
state, we demonstrate a strong two-qubit interaction as well as an enhanced
excitation transfer between the two qubits. Our proposal has twofold
implications: a means to attain multipurpose parity-protected quantum
information tasks in superconducting circuits, and a building block for
ultrastrong coupled cavity-enhanced exciton transport in disordered media."  2016-01-22 2017-04-26 "['Kyaw', 'Allende', 'Kwek', 'Romero']"
1601.07568 "Strong evidence for d-electron spin transport at room temperature at a
  LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "A d-orbital electron has an anisotropic electron orbital and is a source of
magnetism. The realization of a 2-dimensional electron gas (2DEG) embedded at a
LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface surprised researchers in materials and physical
sciences because the 2DEG consists of 3d-electrons of Ti with extraordinarily
large carrier mobility, even in the insulating oxide heterostructure. To date,
a wide variety of physical phenomena, such as ferromagnetism and the quantum
Hall effect, have been discovered in this 2DEG systems, demonstrating the
ability of the d-electron 2DEG systems to provide a material platform for the
study of interesting physics. However, because of both ferromagnetism and the
Rashba field, long-range spin transport and the exploitation of spintronics
functions have been believed difficult to implement in the d-electron 2DEG
systems. Here, we report the experimental demonstration of room-temperature
spin transport in the d-electron-based 2DEG at a LaAlO3/SrTiO3 interface, where
the spin relaxation length is ca. exceeding 200 nm. Our finding, which counters
the conventional understandings to d-electron 2DEGs, opens a new field of
d-electron spintronics. Furthermore, this work highlights a novel spin function
in the conductive oxide system." 10.1038/nmat4857 2016-01-18 2017-01-12 "['Ohshima', 'Ando', 'Matsuzaki', 'Susaki', 'Weiler', 'Klingler', 'Huebl', 'Shikoh', 'Shinjo', 'Goennenwein', 'Shiraishi']"
1602.00508 "A Bayesian view of Single-Qubit Clocks, and an Energy versus Accuracy
  tradeoff" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.mes-hall cs.IT math.IT physics.ins-det quant-ph" "We bring a Bayesian approach to the analysis of clocks. Using exponential
distributions as priors for clocks, we analyze how well one can keep time with
a single qubit freely precessing under a magnetic field. We find that, at least
with a single qubit, quantum mechanics does not allow exact timekeeping, in
contrast to classical mechanics which does. We find the design of the
single-qubit clock that leads to maximum accuracy. Further, we find an energy
versus accuracy tradeoff --- the energy cost is at least $k_BT$ times the
improvement in accuracy as measured by the entropy reduction in going from the
prior distribution to the posterior distribution. We propose a physical
realization of the single qubit clock using charge transport across a
capacitively-coupled quantum dot."  2016-02-01 2017-05-30 "['Gopalkrishnan', 'Kandula', 'Sriram', 'Deshpande', 'Muralidharan']"
1602.01062 "Geometry and non-adiabatic response in quantum and classical systems" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech" "In these lecture notes, partly based on a course taught at the Karpacz Winter
School in March 2014, we discuss the close connections between non-adiabatic
response of a system with respect to macroscopic parameters and the geometry of
quantum and classical states. We center our discussion around adiabatic gauge
potentials, which are the generators of unitary basis transformations in
quantum systems and generators of special canonical transformations in
classical systems. In quantum systems, expectation values of these potentials
in the eigenstates are the Berry connections and the covariance matrix of these
gauge potentials is the geometric tensor, whose antisymmetric part defines the
Berry curvature and whose symmetric part is the Fubini-Study metric tensor. In
classical systems one simply replaces the eigenstate expectation value by an
average over the micro-canonical shell. We express the non-adiabatic response
of the physical observables of the system through these gauge potentials. We
also demonstrate the close connection of the geometric tensor to the notions of
Lorentz force and renormalized mass. We show how one can use this formalism to
derive equations of motion for slow macroscopic parameters coupled to fast
microscopic degrees of freedom to reproduce and even go beyond macroscopic
Hamiltonian dynamics. Finally, we illustrate these ideas with a number of
simple examples and highlight a few more complicated ones drawn from recent
literature."  2016-02-02 2017-05-30 "['Kolodrubetz', 'Sels', 'Mehta', 'Polkovnikov']"
1602.01574 "On the ferroelectric and magnetoelectric mechanisms in low Fe$^{3+}$
  doped TbMnO$_3$" cond-mat.str-el "This work addresses the effect of substituting Mn$^{3+}$ by Fe$^{3+}$ at the
octahedral site of TbMnO$_3$ on the magnetic phase sequence, ferroelectric and
magnetoelectric properties, keeping the Fe$^{3+}$ concentration below 5%. The
temperature dependence of the specific heat, dielectric permittivity and
electric polarization was studied as a function of Fe$^{3+}$ concentration and
applied magnetic field. From the experimental results a strong decrease of the
electric polarization with increasing Fe$^{3+}$ substitution is observed,
vanishing above a concentration of 4%. However, within this range, a
significant increase of the magnetic sensitivity of the electric polarization
is obtained by increasing Fe$^{3+}$ concentration. Above that value, a
non-polar, weak ferromagnetic phase emerges, in good agreement with the
predictions of the Dzyalowshinskii-Moriya model. This behavior reveals the
crucial effect of Fe$^{3+}$ substitution in octahedral sites on the magnetic
phase sequence, polar and magnetoelectric behavior of the
TbMn$_{1-x}$Fe$_x$O$_3$ system. From the results obtained in this work, it is
understood that this behavior is not associated with the eg electronic
configuration, but instead to the competition between ferromagnetic and
antiferromagnetic interactions, which is very sensitive to both local fields
and distortions." 10.1016/j.jmmm.2017.04.085 2016-02-04 2017-05-26 "['Vilarinho', 'Queiros', 'Passos', 'Mota', 'Tavares', 'Mihalik', 'Zentkova', 'Mihalik', 'Almeida', 'Moreira']"
1602.03194 "Spontaneous finite momentum pairing in superconductors without inversion
  symmetry" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mes-hall" "We analyze the effect of magnetic fluctuations in superconductors with strong
spin-orbit coupling and show that they drive a phase transition between two
superconducting states: a conventional phase with zero center-of-mass momentum
of Cooper pairs, and an exotic phase with non-zero pair momentum. The latter is
found to exhibit persistent currents without magnetic field in doubly connected
geometries such as rings. Surprisingly, the transition temperature into the
superconducting state can be increased by applying a Zeeman magnetic field." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184515 2016-02-09  "['Steinbok', 'Michaeli']"
1602.05627 "The sands of time run faster near the end" cond-mat.soft "Submerged granular hoppers exhibit an unexpected surge in discharge rate as
they empty [Wilson et al. 2015]. With a more sensitive apparatus, we find that
this surge depends on hopper diameter and also happens in air --- though the
effect is smaller and previously unnoticed. We also find that the surge may be
turned off by fixing the rate of fluid flow through the granular packing. With
no flow control, dye injected on top of the packing gets drawn into the grains,
at a rate that increases as the hopper empties. Thus we conclude that the surge
is caused by a self-generated pumping of fluid through the packing. We
successfully model this effect via a driving pressure set by the dilation of
grains as they exit. This highlights a surprising and unrecognized role that
interstitial fluid plays in setting the discharge rate, and likely also in
controlling clog formation, for granular hoppers whether in air or under water." 10.1038/ncomms15551 2016-02-17 2016-05-12 "['Koivisto', 'Durian']"
1602.06547 "Potential of mean force and transient states in polyelectrolyte
  complexation" cond-mat.soft "The association between polyelectrolytes (PEs) of the same size but opposite
charge is systematically studied in terms of the potential of mean force (PMF)
along their center-of-mass reaction coordinate via coarse-grained,
implicit-solvent, explicit-salt computer simulations. The focus is set on the
onset and the intermediate, transient stages of complexation. At conditions
above the counterion-condensation threshold, the PE association process
exhibits a distinct sliding-rod-like behavior where the polymer chains approach
each other by first stretching out at a critical distance close to their
contour length, then 'shaking hand' and sliding along each other in a parallel
fashion, before eventually folding into a neutral complex. The essential part
of the PMF for highly charged PEs can be very well described by a simple theory
based on sliding charged `Debye--H\""uckel' rods with renormalized charges in
addition to an explicit entropy contribution owing to the release of condensed
counterions. Interestingly, at the onset of complex formation, the mean force
between the PE chains is found to be discontinuous, reflecting a bimodal
structural behavior that arises from the coexistence of interconnected-rod and
isolated-coil states. These two microstates of the PE complex are balanced by
subtle counterion release effects and separated by a free-energy barrier due to
unfavorable stretching entropy." 10.1063/1.4958675 2016-02-21  "['Xu', 'Kanduč', 'Wu', 'Dzubiella']"
1602.08285 "Role of Phonons in Li-Diffusion, Thermal Expansion and Phase Transitions
  in beta-eucryptite: Inelastic Neutron Scattering and Lattice Dynamics Studies" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Beta eucryptite (LiAlSiO4) shows one-dimensional super-ionic conductivity as
well as anisotropic thermal expansion behavior. We have performed inelastic
neutron scattering measurements in beta eucryptite over 300 to 900 K and
calculated the phonon spectrum using ab initio density functional theory
method. The calculated energy profile for cooperative lithium ion displacements
indicates preferential movement of Li ion along the hexagonal c-axis in the
high temperature phase. However, the energy barrier for Li ion diffusion is
significantly reduced when a Schottky defect is introduced in the crystal.
Further, the anisotropic stress dependence of the phonon spectrum is calculated
to obtain the thermal expansion behavior along various axes. The calculations
show that the Gruneisen parameters of the low-energy phonon modes around 10 meV
have large negative values and govern the negative thermal expansion behavior
both along the a and c axes. On the other hand, anisotropic elasticity along
with anisotropic positive values of the Gruneisen parameters of the high-energy
modes in the range 30 to 70 meV are responsible for positive thermal expansion
in the a-b plane and negative expansion along the c-axis. The analysis of the
polarization vectors of the phonon modes sheds light on the mechanism of the
anomalous thermal expansion behavior. We extend the study to discuss the
relationship of the soft phonons in the Brillouin zone with the observed
high-pressure and high-temperature phase transitions as reported in the
literature." 10.1063/1.4977244 2016-02-26  "['Singh', 'Gupta', 'Mittal', 'Zbiri', 'Rols', 'Patwe', 'Achary', 'Schober', 'Tyagi', 'Chaplot']"
1603.00835 "Twist-bend coupling and the torsional response of double-stranded DNA" "cond-mat.soft q-bio.BM" "Recent magnetic tweezers experiments have reported systematic deviations of
the twist response of double-stranded DNA from the predictions of the twistable
worm-like chain model. Here we show, by means of analytical results and
computer simulations, that these discrepancies can be resolved if a coupling
between twist and bend is introduced. We obtain an estimate of 40 $\pm$ 10 nm
for the twist-bend coupling constant. Our simulations are in good agreement
with high-resolution, magnetic-tweezers torque data. Although the existence of
twist-bend coupling was predicted long ago (Marko and Siggia, Macromolecules
27, 981 (1994)), its effects on the mechanical properties of DNA have been so
far largely unexplored. We expect that this coupling plays an important role in
several aspects of DNA statics and dynamics." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.217801 2016-03-02 2017-05-31 "['Nomidis', 'Kriegel', 'Vanderlinden', 'Lipfert', 'Carlon']"
1603.01044 "Topological Phase Transitions and Thouless Pumping of Light in Photonic
  Waveguide Arrays" "quant-ph cond-mat.quant-gas physics.optics" "Photonic waveguide arrays provide an excellent platform for simulating
conventional topological systems, and they can also be employed for the study
of novel topological phases in photonics systems. However, a direct measurement
of bulk topological invariants remains a great challenge. Here we study
topological features of generalized commensurate Aubry-Andr\'{e}-Harper (AAH)
photonic waveguide arrays and construct a topological phase diagram by
calculating all bulk Chern numbers, and then explore the bulk-edge
correspondence by analyzing the topological edge states and their winding
numbers. In contrast to incommensurate AAH models, diagonal and off-diagonal
commensurate AAH models are not topologically equivalent. In particular, there
appear nontrivial topological phases with large Chern numbers and topological
phase transitions. By implementing Thouless pumping of light in photonic
waveguide arrays, we propose a simple scheme to measure the bulk Chern numbers." 10.1002/lpor.201600119 2016-03-03 2016-09-29 "['Ke', 'Qin', 'Mei', 'Zhong', 'Kivshar', 'Lee']"
1603.03736 "Magnon-drag thermopower and Nernst coefficient in Fe, Co, and Ni" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Magnon-drag is shown to dominate the thermopower of elemental Fe from 2 to 80
K and of elemental Co from 150 to 600 K; it is also shown to contribute to the
thermopower of elemental Ni from 50 to 500 K. Two theoretical models are
presented for magnon-drag thermopower. One is a hydrodynamic theory based
purely on non-relativistic, Galilean, spin-preserving electron-magnon
scattering. The second is based on spin-motive forces, where the thermopower
results from the electric current pumped by the dynamic magnetization
associated with a magnon heat flux. In spite of their very different
microscopic origins, the two give similar predictions for pure metals at low
temperature, allowing us to semi-quantitatively explain the observed
thermopower of elemental Fe and Co without adjustable parameters. We also find
that magnon-drag may contribute to the thermopower of Ni. A spin-mixing model
is presented that describes the magnon-drag contribution to the Anomalous
Nernst Effect in Fe, again enabling a semi-quantitative match to the
experimental data without fitting parameters. Our work suggests that particle
non-conserving processes may play an important role in other types of drag
phenomena, and also gives a predicative theory for improving metals as
thermoelectric materials." 10.1103/PhysRevB.94.144407 2016-03-11 2016-09-10 "['Watzman', 'Duine', 'Tserkovnyak', 'Boona', 'Jin', 'Prakash', 'Zheng', 'Heremans']"
1603.04206 "Thermal decoherence of a nonequilibrium polariton quantum fluid" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech" "While at cryogenic temperature, exciton-polaritons can be safely considered
as insulated from the thermal phonon bath, it is not the case close to room
temperature. Using Selenide based microcavities, we exploit this feature to
warm up a polariton condensate in a controlled way and monitor its spatial
coherence. We determine directly the amount of heat picked up by the condensate
by measuring the phonon-polariton scattering rate and comparing it with the
loss rate. We find that upon increasing the heating rate, the spatial coherence
length decreases markedly, while localized phase structures vanish, in good
agreement with a stochastic mean field theory. From the thermodynamical point
of view, this regime is unique as it involves a nonequilibrium quantum fluid
with a temperature hardly defined at all, but which is nevertheless able to
pick up heat with dramatic effects on the order parameter."  2016-03-14 2017-06-06 "['Klembt', 'Stepanov', 'Klein', 'Minguzzi', 'Richard']"
1603.04254 "Dual gauge field theory of quantum liquid crystals in two dimensions" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.supr-con" "We present a self-contained review of the theory of dislocation-mediated
quantum melting at zero temperature in two spatial dimensions. The theory
describes the liquid-crystalline phases with spatial symmetries in between a
quantum crystalline solid and an isotropic superfluid: quantum nematics and
smectics. It is based on an Abelian-Higgs-type duality mapping of phonons onto
gauge bosons (""stress photons""), which encode for the capacity of the crystal
to propagate stresses. Dislocations and disclinations, the topological defects
of the crystal, are sources for the gauge fields and the melting of the crystal
can be understood as the proliferation (condensation) of these defects, giving
rise to the Anderson-Higgs mechanism on the dual side. For the liquid crystal
phases, the shear sector of the gauge bosons becomes massive signaling that
shear rigidity is lost. Resting on symmetry principles, we derive the
phenomenological imaginary time actions of quantum nematics and smectics and
analyze the full spectrum of collective modes. The quantum nematic is a
superfluid having a true rotational Goldstone mode due to rotational symmetry
breaking, and the origin of this 'deconfined' mode is traced back to the
crystalline phase. The two-dimensional quantum smectic turns out to be a
dizzyingly anisotropic phase with the collective modes interpolating between
the solid and nematic in a non-trivial way. We also consider electrically
charged bosonic crystals and liquid crystals, and carefully analyze the
electromagnetic response of the quantum liquid crystal phases. In particular,
the quantum nematic is a real superconductor and shows the Meissner effect.
Their special properties inherited from spatial symmetry breaking show up
mostly at finite momentum, and should be accessible by momentum-sensitive
spectroscopy." 10.1016/j.physrep.2017.03.004 2016-03-14 2017-06-05 "['Beekman', 'Nissinen', 'Wu', 'Liu', 'Slager', 'Nussinov', 'Cvetkovic', 'Zaanen']"
1603.04359 "Field-driven quantum phase transitions in $S=1/2$ spin chains" cond-mat.str-el "We study the magnetization process of a 1D extended Heisenberg model, the
$J$-$Q$ model, as a function of an external magnetic field. In this model, $J$
represents the traditional antiferromagnetic Heisenberg exchange and $Q$ is the
strength of a competing four-spin interaction. Without external field, this
system hosts a twofold-degenerate dimerized (valence-bond solid) state above a
critical value $q_c\approx 0.85$ where $q\equiv Q/J$. The dimer order is
destroyed and replaced by a partially polarized translationally invariant state
at a critical field value. We find magnetization jumps (metamagnetism) between
the partially polarized and fully polarized state for $q>q_{\rm min}$, where we
have calculated $q_{\rm min}=2/9$ exactly. For $q>q_{\rm min}$ two magnons
(flipped spins on a fully polarized background) attract and form a bound state.
Quantum Monte Carlo studies confirm that the bound state corresponds to the
first step of an instability leading to a finite magnetization jump for
$q>q_{\rm min}$. Our results show that neither geometric frustration nor
spin-anisotropy are necessary conditions for metamagnetism. Working in the
two-magnon subspace, we also find evidence pointing to the existence of
metamagnetism in the unfrustrated $J_1$-$J_2$ chain ($J_1>0$, $J_2<0$), but
only if $J_2$ is spin-anisotropic. We also investigate quantum-critical scaling
near the transition into the fully polarized state for $q\le q_{\rm min}$ at
$T>0$. While the expected `zero-scale-factor' universality is clearly seen for
$q=0$ and $q\ll q_{\rm min}$; closer to $q_{\rm min}$ we find that extremely
low temperatures are required to observe the asymptotic behavior, due to the
influence of the tricritical point at $q_{\rm min}$, which leads to a
cross-over at a temperature $T^*(q)$ between logarithmic tricritical scaling
and zero-scale-factor universality, with $T^*(q)\to 0$ when $q\to q_{\rm min}$." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174436 2016-03-14 2017-05-26 "['Iaizzi', 'Damle', 'Sandvik']"
1603.04596 "Two-Dimensional Node-Line Semimetals in a Honeycomb-Kagome Lattice" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Recently, the concept of topological insulators has been generalized to
topological semimetals, including three-dimensional (3D) Weyl semimetals, 3D
Dirac semimetals, and 3D node-line semimetals. In particular, several compounds
(e.g., certain three-dimensional graphene networks, Cu3PdN, Ca3P2) were
discovered to be 3D node-line semimetals, in which the conduction and the
valence bands cross at closed lines in the Brillouin zone. Except for the
two-dimensional (2D) Dirac semimetal (e.g., in graphene), 2D topological
semimetals are much less investigated. Here, we propose the new concept of a 2D
node-line semimetal and suggest that this state could be realized in a new
mixed lattice (we name it as HK lattice) composed by kagome and honeycomb
lattices. We find that A3B2 (A is a group-IIB cation and B is a group-VA anion)
compounds (such as Hg3As2) with the HK lattice are 2D node-line semimetals due
to the band inversion between cation s orbital and anion pz orbital. In the
presence of buckling or spin-orbit coupling, the 2D node-line semimetal state
may turn into 2D Dirac semimetal state or 2D topological crystalline insulating
state." 10.1088/0256-307X/34/5/057302 2016-03-15  "['Lu', 'Luo', 'Li', 'Yang', 'Cao', 'Gong', 'Xiang']"
1603.06873 "Combining plane wave expansion and variational techniques for fast
  phononic computations" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In this paper the salient features of the Plane Wave Expansion (PWE) method
and the mixed variational technique are combined for the fast eigenvalue
computations of arbitrarily complex phononic unit cells. This is done by
expanding the material properties in a Fourier expansion, as is the case with
PWE. The required matrix elements in the variational scheme are identified as
the discrete Fourier transform coefficients of material properties, thus
obviating the need for any explicit integration. The process allows us to
provide succinct and closed form expressions for all the matrices involved in
the mixed variational method. The scheme proposed here preserves both the
simplicity of expression which is inherent in the PWE method and the superior
convergence properties of the mixed variational scheme. We present numerical
results and comment upon the convergence and stability of the current method.
We show that the current representation renders the results of the method
stable over the entire range of the expansion terms as allowed by the spatial
discretization. When compared with a zero order numerical integration scheme,
the present method results in greater computational accuracy of all
eigenvalues. A higher order numerical integration scheme comes close to the
accuracy of the present method but only with significantly more computational
expense."  2016-03-22 2017-05-25 "['Lu', 'Srivastava']"
1603.08759 "Ensemble nonequivalence in random graphs with modular structure" "math.PR cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.MP physics.soc-ph" "Breaking of equivalence between the microcanonical ensemble and the canonical
ensemble, describing a large system subject to hard and soft constraints,
respectively, was recently shown to occur in large random graphs. Hard
constraints must be met by every graph, soft constraints must be met only on
average, subject to maximal entropy. In Squartini et al. (2015) it was shown
that ensembles of random graphs are non-equivalent when the degrees of the
nodes are constrained, in the sense of a non-zero limiting specific relative
entropy as the number of nodes diverges. In that paper, the nodes were placed
either on a single layer (uni-partite graphs) or on two layers (bi-partite
graphs). In the present paper we consider an arbitrary number of
intra-connected and inter-connected layers, thus allowing for modular graphs
with a multi-partite, multiplex, block-model or community structure. We give a
full classification of ensemble equivalence, proving that breakdown occurs if
and only if the number of local constraints (i.e., the number of constrained
degrees) is extensive in the number of nodes, irrespective of the layer
structure. In addition, we derive a formula for the specific relative entropy
and provide an interpretation of this formula in terms of Poissonisation of the
degrees." 10.1088/1751-8113/50/1/015001 2016-03-29 2016-10-31 "['Garlaschelli', 'Hollander', 'Roccaverde']"
1603.09207 "Revisiting Phase Diagrams of Two-Mode Phase-Field Crystal Models" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In this work, phase diagrams of a modified two-mode phase-field crystal (PFC)
that show two-dimensional (2D) and three-dimensional (3D) crystallographic
structures were determined by utilizing a free energy minimization method. In
this study the modified two-mode PFC model (presented by E. Asadi and M. Asle
Zaeem, Comput. Mater. Sci. 2015) was used, in which the free energy can be
exactly minimized in each stable crystal structure allowing calculation of
accurate phase diagrams for two-mode PFC models. Different crystal structures,
such as square, triangle, body-centered cubic (bcc), face-centered cubic (fcc),
and stripe lattice structures as well as their coexistence regions were
considered in the calculations. The model parameters were discussed to
calculate phase diagrams that can be used as a guideline by other researchers
for studying solidification and solid state phase transformation using two-mode
PFC model." 10.1016/j.commatsci.2016.06.018 2016-03-30 2016-05-17 "['Emdadi', 'Zaeem', 'Asadi']"
1604.01390 "Global phase diagram of a three dimensional dirty topological
  superconductor" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.supr-con" "We investigate the phase diagram of a three-dimensional, time-reversal
symmetric topological superconductor in the presence of charge impurities and
random $s$-wave pairing. Combining complimentary field theoretic and numerical
methods, we show that the quantum phase transition between two topologically
distinct paired states (or thermal insulators), described by thermal Dirac
semimetal, remains unaffected in the presence of sufficiently weak generic
randomness. At stronger disorder, however, these two phases are separated by an
intervening thermal metallic phase of diffusive Majorana fermions. We show that
across the insulator-insulator and metal-insulator transitions, normalized
thermal conductance displays single parameter scaling, allowing us to
numerically extract the critical exponents across them. The pertinence of our
study in strong spin-orbit coupled, three-dimensional doped narrow gap
semiconductors, such as Cu$_x$Bi$_2$Se$_3$, is discussed." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.227002 2016-04-05 2017-06-01 "['Roy', 'Alavirad', 'Sau']"
1604.02686 "Temperature dependence of elastocaloric effect in natural rubber" cond-mat.soft "The temperature dependence of the elastocaloric (eC) effect in natural rubber
(NR) is studied adiabatically and isothermally. A broad temperature span for eC
effect from 0 oC to 49 oC is observed. The maximum adiabatic temperature change
({\Delta}T) is 12 K at strain of 6 and occurs at 10 oC. These behaviors can be
predicted by the temperature dependence of strain-induced crystallization (SIC)
and temperature-induced crystallization (TIC). In isothermal condition, the
deduced {\Delta}T from Clausius-Clapeyron factor can agree with the direct
measurement at different temperatures. The eC performance of NR is compared
with shape memory alloys (SMAs). The potential of NR for a near room
temperature cooing application is primarily proved. This will open the SIC
research of NR towards eC cooling direction." 10.1016/j.physleta.2017.02.014 2016-04-10 2016-04-15 "['Xie', 'Sebald', 'Guyomar']"
1604.03767 "Granular topological insulators" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "Granular conductors form an artificially engineered class of solid state
materials wherein the microstructure can be tuned to mimic a wide range of
otherwise inaccessible physical systems. At the same time, topological
insulators (TIs) have become a cornerstone of modern condensed matter physics
as materials hosting metallic states on the surface and insulating in the bulk.
However it remains to be understood how granularity affects this new and exotic
phase of matter. We perform electrical transport experiments on highly granular
topological insulator thin films of Bi$_2$Se$_3$ and reveal remarkable
properties. We observe clear signatures of topological surface states despite
granularity with distinctly different properties from conventional bulk TI
systems including sharp surface state coupling-decoupling transitions, large
surface state penetration depths and exotic Berry phase effects. We present a
model which explains these results. Our findings illustrate that granularity
can be used to engineer designer TIs, at the same time allowing easy access to
the Dirac-fermion physics that is inaccessible in single crystal systems."  2016-04-13  "['Banerjee', 'Deb', 'Majhi', 'Ganesan', 'Sen', 'Kumar']"
1604.05354 "Quantum Vertex Model for Reversible Classical Computing" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.dis-nn cs.CC quant-ph" "Mappings of classical computation onto statistical mechanics models have led
to remarkable successes in addressing some complex computational problems.
However, such mappings display thermodynamic phase transitions that may prevent
reaching solution even for easy problems known to be solvable in polynomial
time. Here we map universal reversible classical computations onto a planar
vertex model that exhibits no bulk classical thermodynamic phase transition,
independent of the computational circuit. Within our approach the solution of
the computation is encoded in the ground state of the vertex model and its
complexity is reflected in the dynamics of the relaxation of the system to its
ground state. We use thermal annealing with and without 'learning' to explore
typical computational problems. We also construct a mapping of the vertex model
into the Chimera architecture of the D-Wave machine, initiating an approach to
reversible classical computation based on state-of-the-art implementations of
quantum annealing." 10.1038/ncomms15303 2016-04-18 2017-05-17 "['Chamon', 'Mucciolo', 'Ruckenstein', 'Yang']"
1604.07992 "Very low critical current density for motion of coupled domain walls in
  synthetic ferrimagnet nanowires" cond-mat.mes-hall "Domain walls in ferromagnetic nanowires are potential building-blocks of
future technologies such as racetrack memories, in which data encoded in the
domain walls are transported using spin-polarised currents. However, the
development of energy-efficient devices has been hampered by the high current
densities needed to initiate domain wall motion. We show here that a remarkable
reduction in the critical current density can be achieved for in-plane
magnetised coupled domain walls in CoFe/Ru/CoFe synthetic ferrimagnet tracks.
The antiferromagnetic exchange coupling between the layers leads to simple
N\'{e}el wall structures, imaged using photoemission electron and Lorentz
transmission electron microscopy, with a width of only $\sim 100$~nm. The
measured critical current density to set these walls in motion, detected using
magnetotransport measurements, is $1.0 \times 10^{11}$~Am$^{-2}$, almost an
order of magnitude lower than in a ferromagnetically coupled control sample.
Theoretical modelling indicates that this is due to nonadiabatic driving of
anisotropically coupled walls, a mechanism that can be used to design efficient
domain-wall devices." 10.1038/s41598-017-01748-7 2016-04-27 2017-03-27 "['Lepadatu', 'Saarikoski', 'Beacham', 'Benitez', 'Moore', 'Burnell', 'Sugimoto', 'Yesudas', 'Wheeler', 'Miguel', 'Dhesi', 'McGrouther', 'McVitie', 'Tatara', 'Marrows']"
1605.00333 "Quantum simulation of $(1+1)$-dimensional U(1) gauge-Higgs model on a
  lattice by cold Bose gases" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech hep-lat" "We present a theoretical study of quantum simulations of $(1+1)$-dimensional
U(1) lattice gauge-Higgs models, which contain a compact U(1) gauge field and a
Higgs matter field, by using ultra-cold bosonic gases on a one-dimensional
optical lattice. Starting from the extended Bose-Hubbard model with on-site and
nearest-neighbor interactions, we derive the U(1) lattice gauge-Higgs model as
a low-energy effective theory. The derived gauge-Higgs model exhibits
nontrivial phase transitions between confinement and Higgs phases, and we
discuss the relation with the phase transition in the extended Bose-Hubbard
model. Finally, we study real-time dynamics of an electric flux by the
Gross-Pitaevskii equations and the truncated Wigner approximation. The dynamics
is governed by a bosonic analog of the Schwinger mechanism, i.e., shielding of
an electric flux by a condensation of Higgs fields, which occurs differently in
the Higgs and the confinement phase. These results, together with the obtained
phase diagrams, shall guide experimentalists in designing quantum simulations
of the gauge-Higgs models by cold gases." 10.1103/PhysRevD.95.094507 2016-05-01 2017-05-17 "['Kuno', 'Sakane', 'Kasamatsu', 'Ichinose', 'Matsui']"
1605.04255 "Engineering and Manipulating Exciton Wave Packets" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "When a semiconductor absorbs light, the resulting electron-hole superposition
amounts to a uncontrolled quantum ripple that eventually degenerates into
diffusion. If the conformation of these excitonic superpositions could be
engineered, though, they would constitute a new means of transporting
information and energy. We show that properly designed laser pulses can be used
to create such excitonic wave packets. They can be formed with a prescribed
speed, direction and spectral make-up that allows them to be selectively
passed, rejected or even dissociated using superlattices. Their coherence also
provides a handle for manipulation using active, external controls. Energy and
information can be conveniently processed and subsequently removed at a distant
site by reversing the original procedure to produce a stimulated emission. The
ability to create, manage and remove structured excitons comprises the
foundation for opto-excitonic circuits with application to a wide range of
quantum information, energy and light-flow technologies. The paradigm is
demonstrated using both Tight-Binding and Time-Domain Density Functional Theory
simulations." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195423 2016-05-13 2017-05-30 "['Zang', 'Montangero', 'Carr', 'Lusk']"
1605.05017 "The Non-Perturbative Quantum Nature of the Dislocation-Phonon
  Interaction" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Despite the long history of dislocation-phonon interaction studies, there are
many problems that have not been fully resolved during this development. These
include an incompatibility between a perturbative approach and the long-range
nature of a dislocation, the relation between static and dynamic scattering,
and the nature of dislocation-phonon resonance. Here by introducing a fully
quantized dislocation field, the ""dislon""[1], a phonon is renormalized as a
quasi-phonon, with shifted quasi-phonon energy, and accompanied by a finite
quasi-phonon lifetime that is reducible to classical results. A series of
outstanding legacy issues including those above can be directly explained
within this unified phonon renormalization approach. In particular, a
renormalized phonon naturally resolves the decades-long debate between dynamic
and static dislocation-phonon scattering approaches." 10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b04756 2016-05-17  "['Li', 'Ding', 'Meng', 'Zhou', 'Zhu', 'Liu', 'Dresselhaus', 'Chen']"
1605.05768 "Entangled Dynamics in Macroscopic Quantum Tunneling of Bose-Einstein
  Condensates" cond-mat.quant-gas "Tunneling of a quasibound state is a non-smooth process in the entangled
many-body case. Using time-evolving block decimation, we show that repulsive
(attractive) interactions speed up (slow down) tunneling, which occurs in
bursts. While the escape time scales exponentially with small interactions, the
maximization time of the von Neumann entanglement entropy between the remaining
quasibound and escaped atoms scales quadratically. Stronger interactions
require higher order corrections. Entanglement entropy is maximized when about
half the atoms have escaped." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.210403 2016-05-18  "['Alcala', 'Glick', 'Carr']"
1605.06471 "The six-vertex model and Schramm-Loewner evolution" "cond-mat.stat-mech math.PR" "Square ice is a statistical mechanics model for two-dimensional ice, widely
believed to have a conformally invariant scaling limit. We associate a Peano
(space filling) curve to a square ice configuration, and more generally to a
so-called 6-vertex model configuration, and argue that its scaling limit is a
space-filling version of the random fractal curve SLE$_\kappa$,
Schramm--Loewner evolution with parameter $\kappa$, where $4<\kappa\leq
12+8\sqrt{2}$. For square ice, $\kappa=12$. At the ""free-fermion point"" of the
6-vertex model, $\kappa=8+4\sqrt{3}$. These unusual values lie outside the
classical interval $2\le \kappa\le 8$." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052146 2016-05-20 2017-04-24 "['Kenyon', 'Miller', 'Sheffield', 'Wilson']"
1606.00895 "Truncated Calogero-Sutherland models" "quant-ph cond-mat.quant-gas hep-th math-ph math.MP" "A one-dimensional quantum many-body system consisting of particles confined
in a harmonic potential and subject to finite-range two-body and three-body
inverse-square interactions is introduced. The range of the interactions is set
by truncation beyond a number of neighbors and can be tuned to interpolate
between the Calogero-Sutherland model and a system with nearest and
next-nearest neighbors interactions discussed by Jain and Khare. The model also
includes the Tonks-Girardeau gas describing impenetrable bosons as well as a
novel extension with truncated interactions. While the ground state
wavefunction takes a truncated Bijl-Jastrow form, collective modes of the
system are found in terms of multivariable symmetric polynomials. We
numerically compute the density profile, one-body reduced density matrix, and
momentum distribution of the ground state as a function of the range $r$ and
the interaction strength." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205135 2016-06-02 2017-05-01 "['Pittman', 'Beau', 'Olshanii', 'del Campo']"
1606.03364 "Crater formation during raindrop impact on sand" cond-mat.soft "After a raindrop impacts on a granular bed, a crater is formed as both drop
and target deform. After an initial, transient, phase in which the maximum
crater depth is reached, the crater broadens outwards until a final steady
shape is attained. By varying the impact velocity of the drop and the packing
density of the bed, we find that avalanches of grains are important in the
second phase and hence, affect the final crater shape. In a previous paper, we
introduced an estimate of the impact energy going solely into sand deformation
and here we show that both the transient and final crater diameter collapse
with this quantity for various packing densities. The aspect ratio of the
transient crater is however altered by changes in the packing fraction." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.042901 2016-06-10 2017-05-31 "['de Jong', 'Zhao', 'van der Meer']"
1606.04258 "Inhomogeneous Josephson junction chains for superinductance optimization" cond-mat.mes-hall "We report a theoretical study of the low-frequency impedance of a Josephson
junction chain whose parameters vary in space. Our goal is to find the optimal
spatial profile which maximizes the total inductance of the chain without
shrinking the low-frequency window where the chain behaves as an inductor. If
the spatial modulation is introduced by varying the junction areas, we find
that the best result is obtained for a spatially homogeneous chain, reported
earlier in the literature. An improvement over the homogeneous result can be
obtained by representing the junctions by SQUIDs with different loop areas, so
the inductances can be varied by applying a magnetic field. Still, we find that
this improvement becomes less important for longer chains." 10.1140/epjst/e2016-60278-4 2016-06-14 2017-05-27 "['Nguyen', 'Basko']"
1606.04602 "Hilbert Transform: Mapping Classical to Quantum Dynamics" cond-mat.stat-mech "We propose a simulation strategy which uses a classical device of linearly
coupled chain of springs to simulate quantum dynamics, in particular quantum
walks. Through this strategy, we obtain the quantum wave function from the
classical evolution. Specially, this goal is achieved with the classical
momenta of the particles on the chain and their Hilbert transform, from which
we construct the many-body momentum and Hilbert transformed momentum pair
correlation functions yielding the real and imaginary parts of the wave
function, respectively. With such wave function, we show that the classical
chain's energy and heat spreading densities can be related to the wave
function's modulus square. This relation indicates a concept of ""phonon random
walks"", and thus it provides a new perspective to understand ballistic heat
transport. The results here may give a definite answer to Feynman's idea of
using a classical device to simulate quantum physics."  2016-06-14 2017-06-02 "['Xiong', 'Thiel', 'Barkai']"
1606.05462 "Prediction and near-field observation of skull-guided acoustic waves" "physics.med-ph cond-mat.other" "Ultrasound waves propagating in water or soft biological tissue are strongly
reflected when encountering the skull, which limits the use of ultrasound-based
techniques in transcranial imaging and therapeutic applications. Current
knowledge on the acoustic properties of the cranial bone is restricted to
far-field observations, leaving its near-field properties unexplored. We report
on the existence of skull-guided acoustic waves, which was herein confirmed by
near-field measurements of optoacoustically-induced responses in ex-vivo murine
skulls immersed in water. Dispersion of the guided waves was found to
reasonably agree with the prediction of a multilayered flat plate model. It is
generally anticipated that our findings may facilitate and broaden the
application of ultrasound-mediated techniques in brain diagnostics and therapy." 10.1088/1361-6560/aa63e3 2016-06-17 2016-09-15 "['Estrada', 'Rebling', 'Razansky']"
1606.06305 "Limits to coherent scattering and photon coalescence from solid-state
  quantum emitters" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "The desire to produce high-quality single photons for applications in quantum
information science has lead to renewed interest in exploring solid-state
emitters in the weak excitation regime. Under these conditions it is expected
that photons are coherently scattered, and so benefit from a substantial
suppression of detrimental interactions between the source and its surrounding
environment. Nevertheless, we demonstrate here that this reasoning is
incomplete, as phonon interactions continue to play a crucial role in
determining solid-state emission characteristics even for very weak excitation.
We find that the sideband resulting from non-Markovian relaxation of the phonon
environment is excitation strength independent. It thus leads to an intrinsic
limit to the fraction of coherently scattered light and to the visibility of
two-photon coalescence at weak driving, both of which are absent for atomic
systems or within simpler Markovian treatments." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201305 2016-06-20 2017-05-26 "['Iles-Smith', 'McCutcheon', 'Mørk', 'Nazir']"
1606.08439 "Superfluidity in the absence of kinetics in spin-orbit-coupled optical
  lattices" cond-mat.quant-gas "At low temperatures bosons typically condense to minimize their
single-particle kinetic energy while interactions stabilize superfluidity.
Optical lattices with artificial spin-orbit coupling challenge this paradigm
because here kinetic energy can be quenched in an extreme regime where the
single-particle band flattens. To probe the fate of superfluidity in the
absence of kinetics we construct and numerically solve interaction-only
tight-binding models in flat bands. We find that novel superfluid states arise
entirely from interactions operating in quenched kinetic energy bands, thus
revealing a distinct and unexpected condensation mechanism. Our results have
important implications for the identification of quantum condensed phases of
ultracold bosons beyond conventional paradigms." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.033603 2016-06-27 2017-05-30 "['Hui', 'Zhang', 'Zhang', 'Scarola']"
1606.08614 "Zeeman splitting of conduction band in HgTe quantum wells near the Dirac
  point" cond-mat.mes-hall "The Zeeman splitting of the conduction band in the HgTe quantum wells both
with normal and inverted spectrum has been studied experimentally in a wide
electron density range. The simultaneous analysis of the SdH oscillations in
low magnetic fields at different tilt angles and of the shape of the
oscillations in moderate magnetic fields gives a possibility to find the ratio
of the Zeeman splitting to the orbital one and anisotropy of g-factor. It is
shown that the ratios of the Zeeman splitting to the orbital one are close to
each other for both types of structures, with a normal and inverted spectrum
and they are close enough to the values calculated within kP method. In
contrast, the values of g-factor anisotropy in the structures with normal and
inverted spectra is strongly different and for both cases differs significantly
from the calculated ones. We believe that such disagreement with calculations
is a result of the interface inversion asymmetry in the HgTe quantum well,
which is not taken into account in the kP calculations." 10.1016/j.physe.2017.04.023 2016-06-28 2016-06-30 "['Minkov', 'Rut', 'Sherstobitov', 'Dvoretski', 'Mikhailov']"
1606.08959 "First order density wave like transitions in surface doped Na$_2$IrO$_3$" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.supr-con" "We demonstrate that the surface of the honeycomb lattice iridate
Na$_2$IrO$_3$ is extremely tunable by plasma etching. We have succeeded in
turning the surface of Na$_2$IrO$_3$ metallic by Ar plasma etching which leads
to the removal of Na from the surface. The surface structure does not change in
this process as revealed by grazing incidence small angle x-ray scattering
(GISAXS). The sheet resistance $R_s$ can be reduced by several orders of
magnitude by varying the etching duration. Temperature dependent $R_s(T)$ for
the metallic samples show signatures of spin or charge density wave transitions
with abrupt changes in $R_s$. Thermal hysteresis between cooling and warming
measurements across the transition indicates a first order transition. For the
most metallic sample $R_s(T)$ data at low temperatures follow a $T^2$ behaviour
suggesting normal Fermi liquid behaviour." 10.1103/PhysRevB.94.041109 2016-06-29 2017-05-26 "['Mehlawat', 'Singh']"
1607.00967 "Gapped Excitations in the High-Pressure Antiferromagnetic Phase of
  URu$_2$Si$_2$" cond-mat.str-el "We report a neutron scattering study of the magnetic excitation spectrum in
each of the three temperature and pressure driven phases of URu$_2$Si$_2$. We
find qualitatively similar excitations throughout the (H0L) scattering plane in
the hidden order and large moment phases, with no changes in the
$\hbar\omega$-widths of the excitations at the $\Sigma$ = (1.407,0,0) and $Z$ =
(1,0,0) points, within our experimental resolution. There is, however, an
increase in the gap at the $\Sigma$ point from 4.2(2) meV to 5.5(3) meV,
consistent with other indicators of enhanced antiferromagnetism under pressure." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195171 2016-07-04 2017-05-31 "['Williams', 'Barath', 'Yamani', 'Rodriguez-Riviera', 'Leão', 'Garrett', 'Luke', 'Buyers', 'Broholm']"
1607.02277 "Observation of the spin Nernst effect" cond-mat.mes-hall "The observation of the spin Hall effect triggered intense research on pure
spin current transport. With the spin Hall effect, the spin Seebeck effect, and
the spin Peltier effect already observed, our picture of pure spin current
transport is almost complete. The only missing piece is the spin Nernst
(-Ettingshausen) effect, that so far has only been discussed on theoretical
grounds. Here, we report the observation of the spin Nernst effect. By applying
a longitudinal temperature gradient, we generate a pure transverse spin current
in a Pt thin film. For readout, we exploit the
magnetization-orientation-dependent spin transfer to an adjacent Yttrium Iron
Garnet layer, converting the spin Nernst current in Pt into a controlled change
of the longitudinal thermopower voltage. Our experiments show that the spin
Nernst and the spin Hall effect in Pt are of comparable magnitude, but differ
in sign, as corroborated by first-principles calculations."  2016-07-08 2017-06-01 "['Meyer', 'Chen', 'Wimmer', 'Althammer', 'Geprägs', 'Huebl', 'Ködderitzsch', 'Ebert', 'Bauer', 'Gross', 'Goennenwein']"
1607.02968 "An Empirical Correction for Moderate Multiple Scattering in
  Super-Heterodyne Light Scattering" cond-mat.soft "Frequency domain super-heterodyne laser light scattering is utilized in a low
angle integral measurement configuration to determine flow and diffusion in
charged sphere suspensions showing moderate to strong multiple scattering. We
introduce an empirical correction to subtract the multiple scattering
background and isolate the singly scattered light. We demonstrate the excellent
feasibility of this simple approach for turbid suspensions of transmittance
T>0.4. We study the particle concentration dependence of the electro-kinetic
mobility in low salt aqueous suspension over an extended concentration regime
and observe a maximum at intermediate concentrations. We further use our scheme
for measurements of the self-diffusion coefficients in the fluid samples in the
absence or presence of shear, as well as in polycrystalline samples during
crystallization and coarsening. We discuss the scope and limits of our approach
as well as possible future applications." 10.1063/1.4983688 2016-07-11 2017-04-04 "['Botin', 'Schweinfurth', 'Sieber', 'Wittenberg', 'Palberg']"
1607.03102 "A platform for analysis of nanoscale liquids with an integrated sensor
  array based on 2-d material" "physics.ins-det cond-mat.mes-hall" "Analysis of nanoscale liquids, including wetting and flow phenomena, is a
scientific challenge with far reaching implications for industrial
technologies. We report the conception, development, and application of an
integrated platform for the experimental characterization of liquids at the
nanometer scale. The platform combines the sensing functionalities of an
integrated, two-dimensional electronic device array with in situ application of
highly sensitive optical micro-spectroscopy and atomic force microscopy. We
demonstrate the performance capabilities of the platform with an embodiment
based on an array of integrated, optically transparent graphene sensors. The
application of electronic and optical sensing in the platform allows for
differentiating between liquids electronically, for determining a liquid's
molecular fingerprint, and for monitoring surface wetting dynamics in real
time. In order to explore the platform's sensitivity limits, we record
topographies and optical spectra of individual, spatially isolated sessile oil
emulsion droplets having volumes of less than ten attoliters. The results
demonstrate that integrated measurement functionalities based on
two-dimensional materials have the potential to push lab-on-chip based analysis
from the microscale to the nanoscale." 10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b03561 2016-07-08  "['Engel', 'Bryant', 'Neumann', 'Giro', 'Feger', 'Avouris', 'Steiner']"
1607.03141 "Competing Mechanisms between Dislocation and Phase Transformation in
  Plastic Deformation of Single Crystalline Yttria-Stabilized Tetragonal
  Zirconia Nanopillars" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Molecular dynamics (MD) is employed to investigate the plastic deformation
mechanisms of single crystalline yttria-stabilized tetragonal zirconia (YSTZ)
nanopillars under uniaxial compression. Simulation results show that the
nanoscale plastic deformation of YSTZ is strongly dependent on the
crystallographic orientation of zirconia nanopillars. For the first time, the
experimental explored tetragonal to monoclinic phase transformation is
reproduced by MD simulations in some particular loading directions. Three
distinct mechanisms of dislocation, phase transformation, and a combination of
dislocation and phase transformation are identified when applying compressive
loading along different directions. The strength of zirconia nanopillars
exhibits a sensitive behavior depending on the failure mechanisms, such that
the dislocation-mediated deformation leads to the lowest strength, while the
phase transformation-dominated deformation results in the highest strength." 10.1016/j.actamat.2016.08.075 2016-07-11  "['Zhang', 'Zaeem']"
1607.03896 "Many-body topological invariants for fermionic symmetry-protected
  topological phases" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "We define and compute many-body topological invariants of interacting
fermionic symmetry-protected topological phases, protected by an
orientation-reversing symmetry, such as time-reversal or reflection symmetry.
The topological invariants are given by partition functions obtained by a path
integral on unoriented spacetime which, as we show, can be computed for a given
ground state wave function by considering a non-local operation, ""partial""
reflection or transpose. As an application of our scheme, we study the
$\mathbb{Z}_8$ and $\mathbb{Z}_{16}$ classification of topological
superconductors in one and three dimensions." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.216402 2016-07-13 2017-05-29 "['Shapourian', 'Shiozaki', 'Ryu']"
1607.04217 "Nontrivial critical fixed point for replica-symmetry-breaking
  transitions" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.dis-nn hep-th" "The transformation of the free-energy landscape from smooth to hierarchical
is one of the richest features of mean-field disordered systems. A well-studied
example is the de Almeida-Thouless transition for spin glasses in a magnetic
field, and a similar phenomenon--the Gardner transition--has recently been
predicted for structural glasses. The existence of these
replica-symmetry-breaking phase transitions has, however, long been questioned
below their upper critical dimension, d_u=6. Here, we obtain evidence for the
existence of these transitions in d<d_u using a two-loop calculation. Because
the critical fixed point is found in the strong-coupling regime, we corroborate
the result by resumming the perturbative series with inputs from a three-loop
calculation and an analysis of its large-order behavior. Our study offers a
resolution of the long-lasting controversy surrounding phase transitions in
finite-dimensional disordered systems." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.215701 2016-07-14 2017-04-25 "['Charbonneau', 'Yaida']"
1607.05279 "Spectrum of conformal gauge theories on a torus" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech hep-th" "Many model quantum spin systems have been proposed to realize critical points
or phases described by 2+1 dimensional conformal gauge theories. On a torus of
size $L$ and modular parameter $\tau$, the energy levels of such gauge theories
equal $(1/L)$ times universal functions of $\tau$. We compute the universal
spectrum of QED$_3$, a U(1) gauge theory with $N_f$ two-component massless
Dirac fermions, in the large $N_f$ limit. We also allow for a Chern-Simons term
at level $k$, and show how the topological $k$-fold ground state degeneracy in
the absence of fermions transforms into the universal spectrum in the presence
of fermions; these computations are performed at fixed $N_f/k$ in the large
$N_f$ limit." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205128 2016-07-18 2016-09-26 "['Thomson', 'Sachdev']"
1607.06461 "Direct measurement of discrete valley and orbital quantum numbers in a
  multicomponent quantum Hall system" cond-mat.mes-hall "Strongly interacting two dimensional electron systems (2DESs) host a complex
landscape of broken symmetry states. The possible ground states are further
expanded by internal degrees of freedom such as spin or valley-isospin. While
direct probes of spin in 2DESs were demonstrated two decades ago, the valley
quantum number has only been probed indirectly in semiconductor quantum wells,
graphene mono- and bilayers, and transition-metal dichalcogenides. Here, we
present the first direct experimental measurement of valley polarization in a
two dimensional electron system, effected via the direct mapping of the valley
quantum number onto the layer polarization in bilayer graphene at high magnetic
fields. We find that the layer polarization evolves in discrete steps across 32
electric field-tuned phase transitions between states of different valley,
spin, and orbital polarization. Our data can be fit by a model that captures
both single particle and interaction induced orbital, valley, and spin
anisotropies, providing the most complete model of this complex system to date.
Among the newly discovered phases are theoretically unanticipated orbitally
polarized states stabilized by skew interlayer hopping. The resulting roadmap
to symmetry breaking in bilayer graphene paves the way for deterministic
engineering of fractional quantum Hall states, while our layer-resolved
technique is readily extendable to other two dimensional materials where layer
polarization maps to the valley or spin quantum numbers, providing an essential
direct probe that is a prerequisite for manipulating these new quantum degrees
of freedom."  2016-07-21 2017-06-01 "['Hunt', 'Li', 'Zibrov', 'Wang', 'Taniguchi', 'Watanabe', 'Hone', 'Dean', 'Zaletel', 'Ashoori', 'Young']"
1607.06729 "The Hydrogen Atom and the Equivalent Form of Levy-Leblond Equation" "quant-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We discuss the equivalent form of Levy-Leblond equation [1, 2] such that the
nilpotent matrices are two dimensional. We show that this equation can be
obtained in the non-relativistic limit of the (2+1) dimensional Dirac equation.
Furthermore, we analyze the case with four dimensional matrices and propose a
Hamiltonian for the equation in (3+1) dimensions and solve it for a Coulomb
potential. We show that the quantized energy levels for the hydrogen atom are
obtained and the result is consistent with non-relativistic quantum mechanics." 10.1088/0256-307X/34/5/050301 2016-07-22 2017-03-26 ['Ajaib']
1607.07511 "Theory of complex fluids in the warm-dense-matter regime, and
  application to an unusual phase-transitions in liquid carbon" "cond-mat.stat-mech astro-ph.EP physics.plasm-ph" "Data from recent laser-shock experiments, density-functional theory (DFT)
with molecular-dynamics (MD), and path-integral Monte Carlo (PIMC) simulations
on carbon are compared with predictions from the neutral-pseudo-atom (NPA)+
hyper-netted-chain (HNC) approach for carbon, a complex liquid in the
warm-dense matter regime. The NPA results are in good agreement, not only with
high-density regimes that have been studies via PIMC, but even at low densities
and low temperatures where transient covalent bonding dominates ionic
correlations. Thus the `pre-peak' due to the C-C bond at $\sim$1.4-1.6 \AA$\,$
and other features found in the pair-distribution function from DFT+MD
simulations at 0.86 eV and 3.7 g/cm$^3$ etc., are recovered accurately in the
NPA+HNC calculations. Such C-C bonding peaks have not been captured via
average-atom ion-sphere (IS) models. Evidence for an unusual liquid $\to$ vapor
and metal$\to$ semi-metal transition occurring simultaneously is presented.
Here a strongly correlated metallic-liquid with transient C-C bonds, i.e.,
carbon at density $\sim$ 1.0 g/cm$^3$ and mean ionization $Z=4$ transits
abruptly to a disordered mono-atomic vapour at 7 eV, with $Z\simeq$ 3. Other
cases where $Z$ drops abruptly are also noted. The nature of $Z$, its
discontinuities, and the role of exchange correlation, are reviewed. The
limitations of IS models in capturing the physics of transient covalent bonding
in warm dense matter are discussed."  2016-07-25 2017-05-28 ['Dharma-wardana']
1607.07722 "Three-dimensional investigation of void growth leading to fracture in
  commercially pure titanium" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The fracture process of commercially pure titanium was visualized in model
materials containing artificial holes. These model materials were fabricated
using a femtosecond laser coupled with a diffusion bonding technique to obtain
voids in the interior of titanium samples. Changes in void dimensions during
in-situ straining were recorded in three dimensions using x-ray computed
tomography. Void growth obtained experimentally was compared with the Rice and
Tracey model which predicted well the average void growth. A large scatter in
void growth data was explained by differences in grain orientation which was
confirmed by crystal plasticity simulations. It was also shown that grain
orientation has a stronger effect on void growth than intervoid spacing and
material strength. Intervoid spacing, however, appears to control whether the
intervoid ligament failure is ductile or brittle." 10.1007/978-3-319-48762-5_9 2016-07-26  "['Pushkareva', 'Adrien', 'Maire', 'Segurado', 'Llorca', 'Weck']"
1608.01662 "Central Limit Theorem for the Elephant Random Walk" "cond-mat.stat-mech math.PR" "We study the so-called elephant random walk (ERW) which is a non-Markovian
discrete-time random walk on $\mathbb{Z}$ with unbounded memory which exhibits
a phase transition from diffusive to superdiffusive behaviour. We prove a law
of large numbers and a central limit theorem. Remarkably the central limit
theorem applies not only to the diffusive regime but also to the phase
transition point which is superdiffusive. Inside the superdiffusive regime the
ERW converges to a non-degenerate random variable which is not normal. We also
obtain explicit expressions for the correlations of increments of the ERW." 10.1063/1.4983566 2016-08-04  "['Coletti', 'Gava', 'Schütz']"
1608.02019 "Simultaneous observation of free and defect-bound excitons in CH3NH3PbI3
  using four-wave mixing spectroscopy" cond-mat.mes-hall "Solar cells incorporating organic-inorganic perovskite, which may be
fabricated using low-cost solution-based processing, have witnessed a dramatic
rise in efficiencies yet their fundamental photophysical properties are not
well understood. The exciton binding energy, central to the charge collection
process, has been the subject of considerable controversy due to subtleties in
extracting it from conventional linear spectroscopy techniques due to strong
broadening tied to disorder. Here we report the simultaneous observation of
free and defect-bound excitons in CH3NH3PbI3 films using four-wave mixing (FWM)
spectroscopy. Due to the high sensitivity of FWM to excitons, tied to their
longer coherence decay times than unbound electron-hole pairs, we show that the
exciton resonance energies can be directly observed from the nonlinear optical
spectra. Our results indicate low-temperature binding energies of 13 meV (29
meV) for the free (defect-bound) exciton, with the 16 meV localization energy
for excitons attributed to binding to point defects. Our findings shed light on
the wide range of binding energies (2-55 meV) reported in recent years." 10.1038/srep39139 2016-08-05  "['March', 'Clegg', 'Riley', 'Webber', 'Hill', 'Hall']"
1608.02093 "Topological edge states of bound photon pairs" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics quant-ph" "We predict the existence of interaction-driven edge states of bound
two-photon quasiparticles in a dimer periodic array of nonlinear optical
cavities. Energy spectrum of photon pairs is dramatically richer than in the
noninteracting case or in a simple lattice, featuring collapse and revival of
multiple edge and bulk modes as well as edge states in continuum. Despite the
unexpected breakdown of the Zak phase technique and the edge mixing of internal
and center-of-mass motion we link the edge state existence to the two-photon
quantum walk graph connectivity, thus uncovering the topological nature of the
many-body problem in complex lattices." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053866 2016-08-06  "['Gorlach', 'Poddubny']"
1608.02356 "Effect of valence fluctuations on the ground state properties of SmB6" cond-mat.str-el "We argue that because of valence-fluctuation caused dynamical changes
(fluctuations) of impurity energies in the impurity band of SmB6, energies of
electrons occupying impurity sites can be due to the uncertainty principle only
estimated with corresponding uncertainty, so they can be represented by energy
intervals of non-zero width. As a conse- quence, both occupied as well as
unoccupied states can be found in the impurity band above as well as below
Fermi level even in the ground state. Therefore the subsystem of localized
charge carriers in the ground state of SmB6 cannot be described by an energy
distribution function expected for T = 0 K. This fundamental conclusion adds
another reason for absence of resistivity divergence in SmB6 at lowest
temperatures, and sheds new light on interpretation of experimental data
obtained for SmB6 and similar systems at lowest temperatures."  2016-08-08 2017-06-06 "['Batkova', 'Batko']"
1608.02369 "Magnetic-Field-Induced Change of Magneto-Electric Coupling in the in
  Molecular Multiferroic (ND4)2[FeCl5(D2O)]" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.str-el" "Our results describe an unprecedented example of change in the mechanism of
magnetically-induced electric polarization from spin current to spin-dependent
p-d hybridization model. We have followed the evolution of the magnetic
structures of (ND4)2[FeCl5 D2O] compound using single crystal neutron
diffraction under external magnetic field. The spin arrangements change from
incommensurate cycloidal to commensurate distorted-cycloidal and finally to
quasi-collinear. The determination of the magnetic structures allows us to
explain the observed electric polarization in the different ferroelectric
phases. Two different magneto-electric coupling mechanisms are at play: the
spin-current mechanism for external magnetic field below 5 T, and the spin
dependent p-d hybridization mechanism for magnetic field above this value,
being this compound the first example reported presenting this sequence of
magneto-electric coupling mechanisms." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174439 2016-08-08  "['Rodríguez-Velamazán', 'Fabelo', 'Campo', 'Millan', 'Rodríguez-Carvajal', 'Chapon']"
1608.02931 "Giant Electron-hole Charging Energy Asymmetry in Ultra-short Carbon
  Nanotubes" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Making full usage of bipolar transport in single-wall carbon nanotube (SWCNT)
transistors could permit the development of two-in-one quantum devices with
ultra-short channels. We report on clean $\sim$10 to 100 nm long suspended
SWCNT transistors which display a large electron-hole transport asymmetry. The
devices consist of naked SWCNT channels contacted with sections of
SWCNT-under-annealed-gold. The annealed gold acts as an n-doping top gate which
creates nm-sharp barriers at the junctions between the contacts and naked
channel. These tunnel barriers define a single quantum dot (QD) whose charging
energies to add an electron or a hole are vastly different ($e-h$ charging
energy asymmetry). We parameterize the $e-h$ transport asymmetry by the ratio
of the hole and electron charging energies $\eta_{e-h}$. We show that this
asymmetry is maximized for short channels and small band gap SWCNTs. In a small
band gap SWCNT device, we demonstrate the fabrication of a two-in-one quantum
device acting as a QD for holes, and a much longer quantum bus for electrons.
In a 14 nm long channel, $\eta_{e-h}$ reaches up to 2.6 for a device with a
band gap of 270 meV. This strong $e-h$ transport asymmetry survives even at
room temperature." 10.1038/ncomms15491 2016-08-09  "['McRae', 'Tayari', 'Porter', 'Champagne']"
1608.04632 "Optimized auxiliary representation of a non-Markovian environment by a
  Lindblad equation" "cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "We present a general scheme to map correlated nonequilibrium quantum impurity
problems onto an auxiliary open quantum system of small size. The infinite
fermionic reservoirs of the original system are thereby replaced by a small
number $N_B$ of noninteracting auxiliary bath sites whose dynamics is described
by a Lindblad equation. Due to the presence of the intermediate bath sites, the
overall dynamics acting on the impurity site is non-Markovian.
  With the help of an optimization scheme for the auxiliary Lindblad
parameters, an accurate mapping is achieved, which becomes exponentially exact
upon increasing $N_B$. The basic idea for this scheme was presented previously
in the context of nonequilibrium dynamical mean field theory. In successive
works on improved manybody solution strategies for the auxiliary Lindblad
equation, such as Lanczos exact diagonalization or matrix product states, we
applied the approach to study the nonequilibrium Kondo regime.
  In the present paper, we address in detail the mapping procedure itself,
rather than the many-body solution. In particular, we investigate the effects
of the geometry of the auxiliary system on the accuracy of the mapping for
given $N_B$. Specifically, we present a detailed convergence study for five
different geometries which, besides being of practical utility, reveals
important insights into the underlying mechanisms of the mapping. For setups
with onsite or nearest-neighbor Lindblad parameters we find that a
representation adopting two separate bath chains is by far more accurate with
respect to other choices based on a single chain or a commonly used star
geometry. A significant improvement is obtained by allowing for long-ranged and
complex Lindblad parameters. These results can be of great value when studying
Lindblad-type approaches to correlated systems." 10.1088/1367-2630/aa6ccc 2016-08-16  "['Dorda', 'Sorantin', 'von der Linden', 'Arrigoni']"
1608.04899 "Exactly Solved Models and Beyond: a special issue in honour of R J
  Baxter's 75th birthday" "cond-mat.stat-mech hep-th math-ph math.MP" "This is an introduction to Exactly Solved Models and Beyond, a special issue
collection of articles published in J. Phys. A in honour of R J Baxter's 75th
birthday." 10.1088/1751-8113/50/1/010301 2016-08-17 2017-05-31 "['Batchelor', 'Bazhanov', 'Mangazeev']"
1608.04915 "Study of Instability of Liquid Jets Under Gravity" "physics.flu-dyn cond-mat.other" "Breakup of water jets under gravity is a common-place phenomenon. The role of
surface tension in the instability of water jets was recognized by Rayleigh and
the theory propounded goes by the name of Plateau-Rayleigh theory. The necks
and bulges down along the jet-length that are created by perturbation waves of
wavelengths larger than a certain value keep growing with time and ultimately
cause the jet to breakup into drops. The effect of perturbation waves have been
investigated experimentally and found to confirm the essentials of the theory.
However, there is no unanimity about the origin of these perturbation waves.
Recently, the idea of recoil capillary waves as an important source of the
perturbation waves has been emphasized. The recoil of the end point of the
remaining continuous jet at its breakup point is considered to travel upward as
a recoil capillary wave which gets reflected at the mouth of the nozzle from
which the jet originates. The reflected capillary wave travels along the jet
downward with its Doppler shifted wavelength as a perturbation wave. We set up
an experiment to directly verify the existence and effect of the recoil
capillary waves and present some preliminary results of our experiment." 10.1063/1.4980413 2016-08-17  "['Bani', 'Mahato']"
1608.05101 "On entanglement spreading in chaotic systems" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "We discuss the time dependence of subsystem entropies in interacting quantum
systems. As a model for the time dependence, we suggest that the entropy is as
large as possible given two constraints: one follows from the existence of an
emergent light cone, and the other is a conjecture associated to the
""entanglement velocity"" $v_E$. We compare this model to new holographic and
spin chain computations, and to an operator growth picture. Finally, we
introduce a second way of computing the emergent light cone speed in
holographic theories that provides a boundary dynamics explanation for a
special case of entanglement wedge subregion duality in AdS/CFT." 10.1007/JHEP05(2017)065 2016-08-17 2017-01-31 "['Mezei', 'Stanford']"
1608.05236 "Controlled delocalization of electronic states in a multi-strand
  quasiperiodic lattice" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mes-hall" "Finite strips, composed of a periodic stacking of infinite quasiperiodic
Fibonacci chains, have been investigated in terms of their electronic
properties. The system is described by a tight binding Hamiltonian. The
eigenvalue spectrum of such a multi-strand quasiperiodic network is found to be
sensitive on the mutual values of the intra-strand and inter-strand tunnel
hoppings, whose distribution displays a unique three-subband self-similar
pattern in a parameter subspace. In addition, it is observed that special
numerical correlations between the nearest and the next-nearest neighbor
hopping integrals can render a substantial part of the energy spectrum
absolutely continuous. Extended, Bloch like functions populate the above
continuous zones, signalling a complete delocalization of single particle
states even in such a non-translationally invariant system, and more
importantly, a phenomenon that can be engineered by tuning the relative
strengths of the hopping parameters. A commutation relation between the
potential and the hopping matrices enables us to work out the precise
correlation which helps to engineer the extended eigenfunctions and determine
the band positions at will." 10.1140/epjb/e2017-70700-1 2016-08-18  "['Mukherjee', 'Nandy', 'Chakrabarti']"
1608.05323 "Dewetting and Spreading Transitions for Active Matter on Random Pinning
  Substrates" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.stat-mech" "We show that sterically interacting self-propelled disks in the presence of
random pinning substrates exhibit transitions among a variety of different
states. In particular, from a phase separated cluster state, the disks can
spread out and homogeneously cover the substrate in what can be viewed as an
example of an active matter wetting transition. We map the location of this
transition as a function of activity, disk density, and substrate strength, and
we also identify other phases including a cluster state, coexistence between a
cluster and a labyrinth wetted phase, and a pinned liquid. These phases can be
identified using the cluster size, which dips at the wetting-dewetting
transition, and the fraction of sixfold coordinated particles, which drops when
dewetting occurs." 10.1063/1.4983344 2016-08-18  "['Sándor', 'Libál', 'Reichhardt', 'Reichhardt']"
1608.05455 "Finite thermal reservoirs and the canonical distribution" cond-mat.stat-mech "The microcanonical ensemble has long been a starting point for the
development of thermodynamics from statistical mechanics. However, this
approach presents two problems. First, it predicts that the entropy is only
defined on a discrete set of energies for finite, quantum systems, while
thermodynamics requires the entropy to be a continuous function of the energy.
Second, it fails to satisfy the stability condition ($\Delta S / \Delta U < 0$)
for first-order transitions with both classical and quantum systems. Swendsen
has recently shown that the source of these problems lies in the microcanonical
ensemble itself, which contains only energy eigenstates and excludes their
linear combinations. To the contrary, if the system of interest has ever been
in thermal contact with another system, it will be described by a probability
distribution over many eigenstates that is equivalent to the canonical ensemble
for sufficiently large systems. Novotny et al. have recently supported this
picture by dynamical numerical calculations for a quantum mechanical model, in
which they showed the approach to a canonical distribution for up to 40 quantum
spins. By simplifying the problem to calculate only the equilibrium properties,
we are able to extend the demonstration to more than a million particles." 10.1016/j.physa.2017.04.143 2016-08-18  "['Griffin', 'Matty', 'Swendsen']"
1608.05700 "Statistics of fractionalized excitations through threshold spectroscopy" "cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "We show that the anyonic statistics of fractionalized excitations display
characteristic signatures in threshold spectroscopic measurements. Drawing
motivation from topologically ordered phases such as gapped quantum spin
liquids and fractional chern insulators which possess fractionalized
excitations, we consider gapped systems with abelian anyonic excitations. The
low energy onset of associated correlation functions near the threshold show
universal behaviour depending on the statistics of the anyons. This explains
some recent theoretical results in spin systems and also provides a route
towards detecting statistics in experiments such as neutron scattering and
tunneling spectroscopy." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.227201 2016-08-19  "['Morampudi', 'Turner', 'Pollmann', 'Wilczek']"
1608.05825 "Superconductivity-Induced Ferromagnetism and Weyl Superconductivity in
  Nb-doped Bi$_2$Se$_3$" cond-mat.supr-con "A recent experiment on Nb-doped Bi2Se3 showed that zero field magnetization
appears below the superconducting transition temperature. This gives evidence
that the superconducting state breaks time-reversal symmetry spontaneously and
possibly be in the chiral topological phase. This is in sharp contrast to the
Cu-doped case which is possibly in the nematic phase and breaks rotational
symmetry spontaneously. By deriving the free energy of the system from a
microscopic model, we show that the magnetic moments of the Nb atoms can be
polarized by the chiral Cooper pairs and enlarge the phase space of the chiral
topological phase compared to the nematic phase. We further show that the
chiral topological phase is a Weyl superconducting phase with bulk nodal points
which are connected by surface Majorana arcs." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201109 2016-08-20 2016-08-25 "['Yuan', 'He', 'Law']"
1608.05846 "Excitonic superfluid phase in Double Bilayer Graphene" cond-mat.mes-hall "Spatially indirect excitons can be created when an electron and a hole,
confined to separate layers of a double quantum well system, bind to form a
composite Boson. Because there is no recombination pathway such excitons are
long lived making them accessible to transport studies. Moreover, the ability
to independently tune both the intralayer charge density and interlayer
electron-hole separation provides the capability to reach the low-density,
strongly interacting regime where a BEC-like phase transition into a superfluid
ground state is anticipated. To date, transport signatures of the superfluid
condensate phase have been seen only in quantum Hall bilayers composed of
double well GaAs heterostructures. Here we report observation of the exciton
condensate in the quantum Hall effect regime of double layer structures of
bilayer graphene. Correlation between the layers is identified by quantized
Hall drag appearing at matched layer densities, and the dissipationless nature
of the phase is confirmed in the counterflow geometry. Independent tuning of
the layer densities and interlayer bias reveals a selection rule involving both
the orbital and valley quantum number between the symmetry-broken states of
bilayer graphene and the condensate phase, while tuning the layer imbalance
stabilizes the condensate to temperatures in excess of 4K. Our results
establish bilayer graphene quantum wells as an ideal system in which to study
the rich phase diagram of strongly interacting Bosonic particles in the solid
state." 10.1038/nphys4140 2016-08-20 2016-12-22 "['Li', 'Taniguchi', 'Watanabe', 'Hone', 'Dean']"
1608.05891 "Curvature-induced stiffening of a fish fin" "physics.flu-dyn cond-mat.soft physics.bio-ph" "How fish modulate their fin stiffness during locomotive manoeuvres remains
unknown. We show that changing the fin's curvature modulates its stiffness.
Modelling the fin as bendable bony rays held together by a membrane, we deduce
that fin curvature is manifested as a misalignment of the principal bending
axes between neighbouring rays. An external force causes neighbouring rays to
bend and splay apart, and thus stretches the membrane. This coupling between
bending the rays and stretching the membrane underlies the increase in
stiffness. Using analysis of a 3D reconstruction of a Mackerel (Scomber
japonicus) pectoral fin, we calculate the range of stiffnesses this fin is
expected to span by changing curvature. The 3D reconstruction shows that, even
in its geometrically flat state, a functional curvature is embedded within the
fin microstructure owing to the morphology of individual rays. Since the
ability of a propulsive surface to transmit force to the surrounding fluid is
limited by its stiffness, the fin curvature controls the coupling between the
fish and its surrounding fluid. Thereby, our results provide mechanical
underpinnings and morphological predictions for the hypothesis that the spanned
range of fin stiffnesses correlates with the behaviour and the ecological niche
of the fish." 10.1098/rsif.2017.0247 2016-08-21 2017-05-01 "['Nguyen', 'Yu', 'Bandi', 'Venkadesan', 'Mandre']"
1608.06448 "Time-of-flight expansion of trapped dipolar Fermi gases: From the
  collisionless to the hydrodynamic regime" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.comp-ph quant-ph" "A recent time-of-flight (TOF) expansion experiment with polarized fermionic
erbium atoms measured a Fermi surface deformation from a sphere to an ellipsoid
due to dipole-dipole interaction, thus confirming previous theoretical
predictions. Here we perform a systematic study of the ground-state properties
and TOF dynamics for trapped dipolar Fermi gases from the collisionless to the
hydrodynamic regime at zero temperature. To this end we solve analytically the
underlying Boltzmann-Vlasov equation within the relaxation-time approximation
in the vicinity of equilibrium by using a suitable rescaling of the equilibrium
distribution. The resulting ordinary differential equations for the respective
scaling parameters are then solved numerically for experimentally realistic
parameters and relaxation times that correspond to the collisionless,
collisional, and hydrodynamic regime. The equations for the collisional regime
are first solved in the approximation of a fixed relaxation time, and then this
approach is extended to include a self-consistent determination of the
relaxation time. The presented analytical and numerical results are relevant
for a detailed quantitative understanding of ongoing experiments and the design
of future experiments with ultracold fermionic dipolar atoms and molecules. In
particular, the obtained results are relevant for systems with strong
dipole-dipole interaction, which turn out to affect significantly the aspect
ratios during the TOF expansion." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053635 2016-08-23 2017-05-27 "['Veljic', 'Balaz', 'Pelster']"
1608.08200 "Bloch oscillations in the absence of a lattice" cond-mat.quant-gas "We experimentally investigate the quantum motion of an impurity atom that is
immersed in a strongly interacting one-dimensional Bose liquid and is subject
to an external force. We find that the momentum distribution of the impurity
exhibits characteristic Bragg reflections at the edge of an emergent Brillouin
zone. While Bragg reflections are typically associated with lattice structures,
in our strongly correlated quantum liquid they result from the interplay of
short-range crystalline order and kinematic constraints on the many-body
scattering processes in the one-dimensional system. As a consequence, the
impurity exhibits periodic dynamics that we interpret as Bloch oscillations,
which arise even though the quantum liquid is translationally invariant. Our
observations are supported by large-scale numerical simulations." 10.1126/science.aah6616 2016-08-29  "['Meinert', 'Knap', 'Kirilov', 'Jag-Lauber', 'Zvonarev', 'Demler', 'Nägerl']"
1609.00663 "Semiclassical theory of anisotropic transport at LaAlO3/SrTiO3
  interfaces under in-plane magnetic field" cond-mat.mes-hall "The unconventional magnetotransport at the interface between transition-metal
oxides $LaAlO_3$ (LAO) and $SrTiO_3$ (STO) is frequently related to mobile
electrons interacting with localized magnetic moments. However nature and
properties of magnetism at this interface are not well understood so far. In
this paper, we focus on transport effects driven by spin-orbit coupling and
intentionally neglect possible strong correlations. The electrical resistivity
tensor is calculated as a function of the magnitude and orientation of an
external magnetic field parallel to the interface. The semiclassical Boltzmann
equation is solved numerically for the two-dimensional system of spin-orbit
coupled electrons accelerated by an electric field and scattered by
spatially-correlated impurities. At temperatures of a few Kelvin and densities
such that the chemical potential crosses the second pair of spin-orbit split
bands, we find a strongly anisotropic modulation of the (negative)
magnetoresistance above 10 T, characterized by multiple maxima and minima away
from the crystalline axes. Along with the drop of the magnetoresistance, an
abrupt enhancement of the transverse resistivity occurs. The angular modulation
of the latter considerably deviates from a (low-field) sinusoidal dependence to
a (high-field) step-like behaviour. These peculiar features are the
consequences of the anisotropy of both (intra-band and inter-band )
scattering-amplitudes in the Brillouin zone when the relevant energy scales in
the system - chemical potential, spin-orbit interaction and Zeeman energy - are
all comparable to each other. The theory provides good qualitative agreement
with experimental data in the literature." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205430 2016-09-02 2017-05-02 "['Bovenzi', 'Diez']"
1609.01333 "Three-state Potts model on Non-local Directed Small-World Lattices" cond-mat.stat-mech "In this paper, we study the effects of non-local directed Small-World (NLDSW)
disorder in the three-state Potts model as a form to capture the essential
features shared by real complex systems where non-locality effects play a
important role in the behavior of these systems. Using Monte Carlo techniques
and finite-size scaling analysis, we estimate the infinite lattice critical
temperatures and the leading critical exponents in this model. In particular,
we investigate the first- to second-order phase transition crossover when NLDSW
links are inserted. A cluster-flip algorithm was used to reduce the critical
slowing down effect in our simulations. We find that for a NLDSW disorder
densities $p<p^{*}=0.05(4)$, the model exhibits a continuous phase transition
falling into a new universality class, which continuously depends on $p$, while
for $p^{*}\leqslant p \leqslant 1.0$, the model presents a weak first-order
phase transition." 10.1016/j.physa.2017.05.016 2016-09-05 2017-05-27 "['Ferraz', 'Lima']"
1609.01500 "Magnonic Weyl semimetal in pyrochlore ferromagnets" cond-mat.mes-hall "Topological states of matter have been a subject of intensive studies in
recent years because of their exotic properties such as the topologically
protected edge and surface states. The initial studies were exclusively for
electron systems. It is now known that topological states can also exist for
other particles. Indeed, topologically protected edge states have already been
found for phonons and photons. In spite of active searching for topological
states in many fields, the studies in magnetism are relatively rare although
topological states are apparently important and useful in magnonics. Here we
show that the pyrochlore ferromagnets with the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya
interaction are intrinsic magnonic Weyl semimetals. Similar to the electronic
Weyl semimetals, the magnon bands in a magnonic Weyl semimetal are nontrivially
crossing in pairs at special points (called Weyl nodes) in momentum space. The
equal energy contour around the Weyl nodes gives rise to the Fermi arcs on
sample surfaces due to the topologically protected surface states between each
pair of Weyl nodes. Additional Weyl nodes and Fermi arcs can be generated in
lower energy magnon bands when an anisotropic exchange interaction is
introduced." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224403 2016-09-06  "['Su', 'Wang', 'Wang']"
1609.02594 "Ground State Properties of the One-Dimensional Unconstrained
  Pseudo-Anyon Hubbard Model" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study the (pseudo-) anyon Hubbard model on a one-dimensional lattice
without the presence of a three-body hardcore constraint. In particular, for
the pseudo-fermion limit of a large statistical angle $\theta\approx\pi$, we
observe a wealth of exotic properties including {a first order transition}
between different superfluid phases and a {two-component} partially paired
phase for large fillings without need of an additional three-body hardcore
constraint.In this limit, we analyze the effect of an induced hardcore
constraint, which leads to the stabilization of superfluid {ground states} for
vanishing or even small attractive on-site interactions. For finite statistical
angles, we study the unconventional broken-symmetry superfluid peaked at a
finite momentum, resulting in an interesting beat phenomenon of single particle
correlation functions.We show how some features of various ground state phases,
including an analog of the partially paired phase in the pseudo-fermion limit,
may be reproduced in a naive mean field frame." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053614 2016-09-08 2017-05-28 "['Zhang', 'Greschner', 'Fan', 'Scott', 'Zhang']"
1609.03044 "From glass formation to icosahedral ordering by curving
  three-dimensional space" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.soft" "Geometric frustration describes the inability of a local molecular
arrangement, such as icosahedra found in metallic glasses and in model atomic
glass-formers, to tile space. Local icosahedral order however is strongly
frustrated in Euclidean space, which obscures any causal relationship with the
observed dynamical slowdown. Here we relieve frustration in a model
glass-forming liquid by curving 3-dimensional space onto the surface of a
4-dimensional hypersphere. For sufficient curvature, frustration vanishes and
the liquid freezes in a fully icosahedral structure via a sharp `transition'.
Frustration increases upon reducing the curvature, and the transition to the
icosahedral state smoothens while glassy dynamics emerges. Decreasing the
curvature leads to decoupling between dynamical and structural length scales
and the decrease of kinetic fragility. This sheds light on the observed
glass-forming behavior in the Euclidean space." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.215501 2016-09-10 2017-05-04 "['Turci', 'Tarjus', 'Royall']"
1609.03207 "Multiplex lexical networks reveal patterns in early word acquisition in
  children" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.dis-nn cs.CL cs.LG" "Network models of language have provided a way of linking cognitive processes
to the structure and connectivity of language. However, one shortcoming of
current approaches is focusing on only one type of linguistic relationship at a
time, missing the complex multi-relational nature of language. In this work, we
overcome this limitation by modelling the mental lexicon of English-speaking
toddlers as a multiplex lexical network, i.e. a multi-layered network where
N=529 words/nodes are connected according to four types of relationships: (i)
free associations, (ii) feature sharing, (iii) co-occurrence, and (iv)
phonological similarity. We provide analysis of the topology of the resulting
multiplex and then proceed to evaluate single layers as well as the full
multiplex structure on their ability to predict empirically observed age of
acquisition data of English speaking toddlers. We find that the emerging
multiplex network topology is an important proxy of the cognitive processes of
acquisition, capable of capturing emergent lexicon structure. In fact, we show
that the multiplex topology is fundamentally more powerful than individual
layers in predicting the ordering with which words are acquired. Furthermore,
multiplex analysis allows for a quantification of distinct phases of lexical
acquisition in early learners: while initially all the multiplex layers
contribute to word learning, after about month 23 free associations take the
lead in driving word acquisition." 10.1038/srep46730 2016-09-11 2017-05-26 "['Stella', 'Beckage', 'Brede']"
1609.03515 "Frustrated Magnetism and Caloric Effects in Mn-antiperovskite Nitrides:
  $Ab~Initio$ Theory" cond-mat.str-el "We model changes of magnetic ordering in Mn-antiperovskite nitrides driven by
biaxial lattice strain at zero and at finite temperature. We employ a
non-collinear spin-polarised density functional theory to compare the response
of the geometrically frustrated exchange interactions to a tetragonal symmetry
breaking (the so called piezomagnetic effect) across a range of Mn$_3$AN (A =
Rh, Pd, Ag, Co, Ni, Zn, Ga, In, Sn) at zero temperature. Building on the
robustness of the effect we focus on Mn$_3$GaN and extend our study to finite
temperature using the disordered local moment (DLM) first-principles electronic
structure theory to model the interplay between the ordering of Mn magnetic
moments and itinerant electron states. We discover a rich temperature-strain
magnetic phase diagram with two previously unreported phases stabilised by
strains larger than 0.75\% and with transition temperatures strongly dependent
on strain. We propose an elastocaloric cooling cycle crossing two of the
available phase transitions to achieve simultaneously a large isothermal
entropy change (due to the first order transition) and a large adiabatic
temperature change (due to the second order transition)." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184438 2016-09-12 2017-04-19 "['Zemen', 'Tapia', 'Gercsi', 'Banerjee', 'Patrick', 'Staunton', 'Sandeman']"
1609.04046 "Quantum heat waves in a one-dimensional condensate" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study the dynamics of phase relaxation between a pair of one-dimensional
condensates created by a bi-directional, supersonic `unzipping' of a finite
single condensate. We find that the system fractures into different
\emph{extensive} chunks of space-time, within which correlations appear thermal
but correspond to different effective temperatures. Coherences between
different eigen-modes are crucial for understanding the development of such
thermal correlations; at no point in time can our system be described by a
generalized Gibbs' ensemble despite nearly always appearing locally thermal. We
rationalize a picture of propagating fronts of hot and cold sound waves,
populated at effective, relativistically red- and blue-shifted temperatures to
intuitively explain our findings. The disparity between these hot and cold
temperatures vanishes for the case of instantaneous splitting but diverges in
the limit where the splitting velocity approaches the speed of sound; in this
limit, a sonic boom occurs wherein the system is excited only along an
infinitely narrow, and infinitely hot beam. We expect our findings to apply
generally to the study of superluminal perturbations in systems with emergent
Lorentz symmetry." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195157 2016-09-13  "['Agarwal', 'Torre', 'Schmiedmayer', 'Demler']"
1609.04151 "Post-quench dynamics and suppression of thermalization in an open
  half-filled Hubbard layer" cond-mat.str-el "We study the time evolution of a half-filled Hubbard layer coupled to a
magnon bath after a quench of the Hubbard interaction. Qualitatively different
regimes, regarding the asymptotic long-time dynamics, are identified and
characterized within the mean-field approximation. In the absence of the bath,
the dynamics of the closed system is similar to that of a quenched BCS
condensate. Though the presence of the bath introduces an additional relaxation
mechanism, our numerical results and analytical arguments show that
equilibration with the bath is not necessarily attained within the
approximations used. Instead, nonequilibrium states, similar to the ones
observed in the closed system, can emerge at long times as a consequence of the
competition between the intrinsic relaxation mechanism (Landau damping, for
example), and the bath-induced dissipation." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.024309 2016-09-14 2017-06-06 "['Blinov', 'Ribeiro', 'Rubtsov']"
1609.05238 "Comment on ""Linear Scaling of the Exciton Binding Energy versus the Band
  Gap of Two-Dimensional Materials""" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In a recent letter [J. -H. Choi et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 066403 (2015)],
a universal linear relation between the binding energy Eb of exciton and the
band gap Eg is found in different quasi-2D semiconductors. However, when one
extrapolates the straight line to Eg=0, a positive Eb is obtained. This means
that a stable exciton exists in a metal (Eg=0), or in other words, the
excitation energy is negative. Therefore, for quasi-2D semiconductors with
small band gap, Eb vs. Eg must deviate from the straight line suggested in the
Letter.
  We performed similar GW+BSE calculation as the Letter for compressed
phosphorene and stretched graphene. At larger band gap, our data fall in the
same straight lien as the Letter. But for the quasi-2D semiconductors with
small band gap, the Eb vs. Eg curve approaches to zero. A simple model based on
local instantaneous screened interaction gives reasonable agreement with the
more rigorous calculations. For the quasi-2D semiconductors with diminishing
gap Eg<0.3eV, due to the nonlocal retarded effect induced by the strong
screening in the small gap materials, one has to use 2-time transition
amplitude (Bethe-Salpeter wave function) to describe exciton." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.209701 2016-09-13  "['Zhang', 'Huang', 'Zhang', 'Lu']"
1609.05464 "Hidden long-range order in a spin-orbit coupled two-dimensional Bose gas" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.atom-ph" "A spin-orbit coupled two-dimensional (2D) Bose gas is shown to simultaneously
possess quasi and true long-range order in the total and relative phase
sectors, respectively. The total phase undergoes a Berenzinskii-
Kosterlitz-Thouless transition to a low temperature phase with quasi long-range
order, as expected for a two- dimensional quantum gas. Additionally, the
relative phase undergoes an Ising-type transition building up true long-range
order, which is induced by the anisotropic spin-orbit coupling. Based on the
Bogoliubov approach, expressions for the total- and relative-phase fluctuations
are derived analytically for the low temperature regime. Numerical simulations
of the stochastic projected Gross-Pitaevskii equation (SPGPE) give a good
agreement with the analytical predictions." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053629 2016-09-18 2017-04-25 "['Su', 'Liu', 'Gou', 'Liao', 'Fialko', 'Brand']"
1609.05717 "Formation of a macroscopically extended polariton condensate without an
  exciton reservoir" cond-mat.quant-gas "We report a record-size polariton condensate of a fraction of a millimeter.
This macroscopically occupied state of macrosopic size is not constrained to
the excitation spot and is free from the usual complications brought by
high-energy reservoir excitons, which strongly alter the physics of polaritons,
including their mobility, energy distribution and particle interactions. The
density of this trap-free condensate is lower than one polariton per square
micron, reducing the phase noise induced by the interaction energy.
Experimental findings are backed up by numerical simulations using a
hydrodynamic model which takes into account both the polariton expansion and
the phonon-assisted relaxation towards the lowest energy state. These results
propel polariton condensates at the fundamental level set by their cold-atomic
counterparts by getting rid of several solid-state difficulties, while still
retaining their unique driven/dissipative features." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.215301 2016-09-19  "['Ballarini', 'Caputo', 'Muñoz', 'De Giorgi', 'Dominici', 'Szymańska', 'West', 'Pfeiffer', 'Gigli', 'Laussy', 'Sanvitto']"
1609.06005 "The Reason Why Sediment Transport is Analog to Sliding Friction" "cond-mat.soft physics.ao-ph physics.geo-ph" "Bagnold was the first to describe sediment transport in liquids and air by a
constant friction coefficient at the bed surface. This is an essential, but
poorly understood, assumption in many historical and modern theoretical
attempts to derive expressions for the sediment transport rate. Using direct
numerical simulations of sediment transport, we find, indeed, a constant
friction coefficient at the bed surface for the entire range of parameters
studied, including liquids and air. However, this does not result from a yield
condition or inertial rheology, as previously suggested, but instead from a
universal constraint on the average geometry of particle-bed rebounds in steady
and homogeneous transport."  2016-09-19 2017-05-30 "['Pähtz', 'Durán']"
1609.07194 "Calculations of Magnetic properties of metals through the
  magnetic-field-containing relativistic tight-binding approximation method" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Magnetic properties of metals are investigated through electronic structure
calculations based on the recently-proposed magnetic-field-containing
relativistic tight-binding approximation (MFRTB) method [Phys. Rev. B
\textbf{91}, 075122 (2015)]. It is found that electronic energy bands for the
metal immersed in the uniform magnetic field have a cluster structure in which
multiple energy bands lie within a small energy width. Each cluster corresponds
to the energy level that is derived on the basis of the semiclassical
approximation. While the cluster is responsible for the de Haas-van Alphen
(dHvA) oscillations, constituent energy bands of the cluster cause additional
oscillation peaks of the magnetization. Also, the energy width of the cluster
leads to the reduction of the amplitude of the dHvA oscillations, which can be
observed as the pseudo Dingle temperature and/or the overestimation of the
curvature of the Fermi surface." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195153 2016-09-22  "['Higuchi', 'Higuchi']"
1609.07832 "Local criticality, diffusion and chaos in generalized Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev
  models" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el" "The Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev model is a $(0+1)$-dimensional model describing
Majorana fermions or complex fermions with random interactions. This model has
various interesting properties such as approximate local criticality (power law
correlation in time), zero temperature entropy, and quantum chaos. In this
article, we propose a higher dimensional generalization of the
Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev model, which is a lattice model with $N$ Majorana fermions at
each site and random interactions between them. Our model can be defined on
arbitrary lattices in arbitrary spatial dimensions. In the large $N$ limit, the
higher dimensional model preserves many properties of the Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev
model such as local criticality in two-point functions, zero temperature
entropy and chaos measured by the out-of-time-ordered correlation functions. In
addition, we obtain new properties unique to higher dimensions such as
diffusive energy transport and a ""butterfly velocity"" describing the
propagation of chaos in space. We mainly present results for a
$(1+1)$-dimensional example, and discuss the general case near the end." 10.1007/JHEP05(2017)125 2016-09-25 2017-05-29 "['Gu', 'Qi', 'Stanford']"
1609.08883 "Frustrated magnetism in the Heisenberg pyrochlore antiferromagnets
  $A$Yb$_2$$X$$_4$ ($A$ = Cd, Mg, $X$ = S, Se)" cond-mat.str-el "Our polycrystalline sample study on the Yb-based chalcogenide spinels
$A$Yb$_2$$X_4$ ($A =$ Cd, Mg, $X =$ S, Se) has revealed frustrated magnetism
due to the antiferromagnetically coupled Heisenberg spin on the pyrochlore
lattice. Our crystal electric field analysis indicates the Yb ground state has
nearly Heisenberg spins with a strong quantum character of the ground doublet.
All the materials exhibit an antiferromagnetic order at 1.4-1.8 K, much lower
temperature than the antiferromagnetic exchange coupling scale of $\sim 10$ K.
The magnetic specific heat $C_{\rm M}$ shows a $T^{3}$ dependence, indicating
the gapless feature in the Yb-based chalcogenide spinels. The magnetic entropy
change much smaller than $R$ ln 2 below the N\'{e}el temperature and the small
local magnetic field estimated from the $\mu$SR measurements strongly suggest
the significantly reduced size of the ordered moment in comparison with the
bare moment size 1.33 $\mu_{\rm B}$/Yb supporting strong fluctuations in the
commensurate and incommensurate ordered states in CdYb$_2$S$_4$ and
MgYb$_2$S$_4$, respectively." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174443 2016-09-28 2017-04-12 "['Higo', 'Iritani', 'Halim', 'Higemoto', 'Ito', 'Kuga', 'Kimura', 'Nakatsuji']"
1609.09024 "Dual time scales in simulated annealing of a two-dimensional Ising spin
  glass" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "We apply a generalized Kibble-Zurek out-of-equilibrium scaling ansatz to
simulated annealing when approaching the spin-glass transition at temperature
$T=0$ of the two-dimensional Ising model with random $J= \pm 1$ couplings.
Analyzing the spin-glass order parameter and the excess energy as functions of
the system size and the annealing velocity in Monte Carlo simulations with
Metropolis dynamics, we find scaling where the energy relaxes slower than the
spin-glass order parameter, i.e., there are two different dynamic exponents.
The values of the exponents relating the relaxation time scales to the system
length, $\tau \sim L^z$, are $z=8.28 \pm 0.03$ for the relaxation of the order
parameter and $z=10.31 \pm 0.04$ for the energy relaxation. We argue that the
behavior with dual time scales arises as a consequence of the entropy-driven
ordering mechanism within droplet theory. We point out that the dynamic
exponents found here for $T \to 0$ simulated annealing are different from the
temperature-dependent equilibrium dynamic exponent $z_{\rm eq}(T)$, for which
previous studies have found a divergent behavior; $z_{\rm eq}(T\to 0) \to
\infty$. Thus, our study shows that, within Metropolis dynamics, it is easier
to relax the system to one of its degenerate ground states than to migrate at
low temperatures between regions of the configuration space surrounding
different ground states. In a more general context of optimization, our study
provides an example of robust dense-region solutions for which the excess
energy (the conventional cost function) may not be the best measure of success." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052133 2016-09-28 2017-05-12 "['Rubin', 'Xu', 'Sandvik']"
1609.09084 "Odd-parity superconductivity near inversion breaking quantum critical
  point in one dimension" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "We study how an inversion-breaking quantum critical point affects the ground
state of a one-dimensional electronic liquid with repulsive interaction and
spin-orbit coupling. We find that regardless of the interaction strength, the
critical fluctuations always lead to a gap in the electronic spin-sector. The
origin of the gap is a two-particle backscattering process, which becomes
relevant due to renormalization of the Luttinger parameter near the critical
point. The resulting spin-gapped state is a one-dimensional version of spin
triplet superconductivity. Interestingly, in the case of a ferromagnetic
critical point the Luttinger parameter is renormalized in the opposite manner,
such that the system remains non-superconducting." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.227001 2016-09-28 2017-05-26 "['Ruhman', 'Kozii', 'Fu']"
1609.09163 "Microstructural Characteristics of Reaction-Bonded B4C/SiC Composite" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "A detailed microstructural investigation was performed to understand
structural characteristics of a reaction-bonded B$_4$C/SiC ceramic composite.
The state-of-the-art focused ion beam & scanning electron microscopy (FIB/SEM)
and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) revealed that the as-fabricated
product consisted of core-rim structures with {\alpha}-SiC and $B_4$C cores
surrounded by \beta-SiC and $B_4$C, respectively. In addition, plate-like
\beta-SiC was detected within the $B_4$C rim. A phase formation mechanism was
proposed and the analytical elucidation is anticipated to shed light on
potential fabrication optimization and the property improvement of ceramic
composites." 10.1007/978-3-319-48210-1_34 2016-09-28  "['Wang', 'Ni', 'Karandikar']"
1609.09457 "From arteries to boreholes: Steady-state response of a poroelastic
  cylinder to fluid injection" "physics.flu-dyn cond-mat.soft" "The radially outward flow of fluid into a porous medium occurs in many
practical problems, from transport across vascular walls to the pressurisation
of boreholes. As the driving pressure becomes non-negligible relative to the
stiffness of the solid structure, the poromechanical coupling between the fluid
and the solid has an increasingly strong impact on the flow. For very large
pressures or very soft materials, as is the case for hydraulic fracturing and
arterial flows, this coupling can lead to large deformations and, hence, to
strong deviations from a classical, linear-poroelastic response. Here, we study
this problem by analysing the steady-state response of a poroelastic cylinder
to fluid injection. We consider the qualitative and quantitative impacts of
kinematic and constitutive nonlinearity, highlighting the strong impact of
deformation-dependent permeability. We show that the wall thickness (thick vs.
thin) and the outer boundary condition (free vs. constrained) play a central
role in controlling the mechanics." 10.1098/rspa.2016.0753 2016-09-29 2017-04-28 "['Auton', 'MacMinn']"
1609.09482 "Topological Superconductivity in a Planar Josephson Junction" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "We consider a two-dimensional electron gas with strong spin-orbit coupling
contacted by two superconducting leads, forming a Josephson junction. We show
that in the presence of an in-plane Zeeman field the quasi-one-dimensional
region between the two superconductors can support a topological
superconducting phase hosting Majorana bound states at its ends. We study the
phase diagram of the system as a function of the Zeeman field and the phase
difference between the two superconductors (treated as an externally controlled
parameter). Remarkably, at a phase difference of $\pi$, the topological phase
is obtained for almost any value of the Zeeman field and chemical potential. In
a setup where the phase is not controlled externally, we find that the system
undergoes a first-order topological phase transition when the Zeeman field is
varied. At the transition, the phase difference in the ground state changes
abruptly from a value close to zero, at which the system is trivial, to a value
close to $\pi$, at which the system is topological. The critical current
through the junction exhibits a sharp minimum at the critical Zeeman field, and
is therefore a natural diagnostic of the transition. We point out that in
presence of a symmetry under a modified mirror reflection followed by time
reversal, the system belongs to a higher symmetry class and the phase diagram
as a function of the phase difference and the Zeeman field becomes richer." 10.1103/PhysRevX.7.021032 2016-09-29  "['Pientka', 'Keselman', 'Berg', 'Yacoby', 'Stern', 'Halperin']"
1609.09568 "Superconductivity mediated by quantum critical antiferromagnetic
  fluctuations: The rise and fall of hot spots" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "In several unconventional superconductors, the highest superconducting
transition temperature $T_{c}$ is found in a region of the phase diagram where
the antiferromagnetic transition temperature extrapolates to zero, signaling a
putative quantum critical point. The elucidation of the interplay between these
two phenomena - high-$T_{c}$ superconductivity and magnetic quantum criticality
- remains an important piece of the complex puzzle of unconventional
superconductivity. In this paper, we combine sign-problem-free Quantum Monte
Carlo simulations and field-theoretical analytical calculations to unveil the
microscopic mechanism responsible for the superconducting instability of a
general low-energy model, called spin-fermion model. In this approach,
low-energy electronic states interact with each other via the exchange of
quantum critical magnetic fluctuations. We find that even in the regime of
moderately strong interactions, both the superconducting transition temperature
and the pairing susceptibility are governed not by the properties of the entire
Fermi surface, but instead by the properties of small portions of the Fermi
surface called hot spots. Moreover, $T_{c}$ increases with increasing
interaction strength, until it starts to saturate at the crossover from
hot-spots dominated to Fermi-surface dominated pairing. Our work provides not
only invaluable insights into the system parameters that most strongly affect
$T_{c}$, but also important benchmarks to assess the origin of
superconductivity in both microscopic models and actual materials." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174520 2016-09-29 2017-05-26 "['Wang', 'Schattner', 'Berg', 'Fernandes']"
1609.09611 "Relaxation decoupling in metallic glassy state" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.soft" "Upon cooling, glass-forming liquids experience a two-step relaxation
associated to the cage rattling and the escape from the cage, and the following
decoupling between the \b{eta}- and the {\alpha}-relaxations. The found
decoupling behaviors have greatly changed the face of glassy physics and
materials studies. Here we report a novel dynamic decoupling that the
relaxation function changes gradually from a single-step to a two-step form as
temperature declines through the stress relaxation of various metallic glasses
in a broad time and temperature range below glass transition temperature (Tg).
Such a two-step relaxation is unexpected in glassy state and reveals a
decoupling of dynamic modes arising from two different mechanisms: a faster one
exhibiting ballistic-like feature, and a slower one associated with a broader
distribution of relaxation times typical of subdiffusive atomic motion. This
first observation of two-step dynamics in metallic glassy state points to a far
richer-than-expected scenario for glass relaxation." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.225901 2016-09-30 2016-10-03 "['Luo', 'Wen', 'Bai', 'Ruta', 'Wang']"
1610.00269 "Structural Phase Stability in Fluorinated Calcium Hydride" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In order to improve the hydrogen storage properties of calcium hydride
(CaH2), we have tuned its thermodynamical properties through fluorination.
Using ab-initio total energy calculations based on density functional theory,
the structural stability, electronic structure and chemical bonding of CaH2-xFx
systems are investigated. The phase transition of fluorinated systems from
orthorhombic to cubic structure has been observed at 18% fluorine doped CaH2.
The phase stability analysis shows that CaH2-xFx systems are highly stable and
the stability is directly correlating with their ionicity. Density of states
(DOS) plot reveals that CaH2-xFx systems are insulators. Partial DOS and charge
density analyses conclude that these systems are governed by ionic bonding. Our
results show that H closer to F can be removed more easily than that far away
from F and this is due to disproportionation induced in the bonding interaction
by fluorination." 10.1063/1.4980184 2016-10-02  "['Varunaa', 'Ravindran']"
1610.00409 "Prediction of Magnetoelectric behavior in Bi2MnTiO6" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We present results from ab initio calculations based on density functional
theory for bismuth-based double perovskite Bi2MnTiO6. Using total energy
calculation with stress and force minimization we have predicted the
equilibrium crystal structure for Bi2MnTiO6 considering potential structures
into the calculation. We have predicted that the ground state of Bi2MnTiO6 will
be a noncentrosymmetric rhombohedral structure with space group R3c. Our spin
polarized calculation for different possible collinear magnetic configurations
we found that Bi2MnTiO6 will be an insulator with G-type antiferromagnetic
ordering in its ground state. The coexistence of both stereochemically active
Bi-6s lone pair and the Ti4+ with d0-ness which bring covalency results in the
stabilization of noncentrosymmetric structure and thus ferroelectricity. Our
orbital projected density of states plot shows that the Mn2+ in Bi2MnTiO6 will
be at high spin state with a spin moment of 4.28 {\mu}B. Hence Bi2MnTiO6 is
predicted to be a magnetoelectric material." 10.1063/1.4980773 2016-10-03  "['Patra', 'Ravindran']"
1610.00489 "Quantum dilute droplets of dipolar bosons at finite temperature" cond-mat.quant-gas "We systematically study the properties of dipolar Bose gases with two- and
three-body contact interactions at finite temperature using the
Hartree-Fock-Bogoliubov-Popov approximation. In uniform case, we obtain an
exciting new extension of the seminal Lee-Huang-Yang corrected equation of
state that depends explicitly on the thermal fluctuations and on the coupling
constant of the three-body interaction. We investigate, on the other hand, the
effects of thermal fluctuations on the occurrence and stability of a droplet
state in a Bose-Einstein condensate with strong dipole-dipole interactions. We
find that at finite temperature, the droplet phase appears as a narrow peak
surrounded by a broader thermal halo. We show that the number of particles
inside the droplet decays with increasing temperature." 10.1016/j.aop.2017.03.020 2016-10-03 2017-05-25 ['Boudjemaa']
1610.00931 "Effect of temperature on spin-transfer torque induced magnetic solitons" cond-mat.mes-hall "Spin-transfer torques in a nanocontact to an extended magnetic film can
create spin waves that condense to form dissipative droplet solitons. Here we
report an experimental study of the temperature dependence of the current and
applied field thresholds for droplet soliton formation, as well as the
nanocontact's electrical characteristics associated with droplet dynamics.
Nucleation of droplet solitons requires higher current densities at higher
temperatures, in contrast to typical spin-transfer torque induced switching
between static magnetic states. Magnetoresistance and electrical noise
measurements show that soliton instabilities become more pronounced with
increasing temperature. These results are of fundamental interest in
understanding the influence of thermal noise on droplet solitons, and in
controlling their dynamics." 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.7.054027 2016-10-04  "['Lendínez', 'Hang', 'Vélez', 'Hernàndez', 'Backes', 'Kent', 'Macià']"
1610.02119 "Spin blockade as a probe of Zeeman interactions in hole quantum dots" cond-mat.mes-hall "Spin-orbit coupling is key to all-electrical control of quantum-dot spin
qubits, and is frequently stronger for holes than for electrons. Here we
investigate Pauli spin blockade for two heavy holes in a gated double quantum
dot in an in-plane magnetic field. The interplay of the complex Zeeman and
spin-orbit couplings causes a blockade leakage current anisotropic in the field
direction. The period of the anisotropic leakage is critically dependent on the
relative magnitude of Zeeman interaction terms linear and cubic in the magnetic
field. The current and singlet-triplet exchange splitting can be effectively
adjusted by an appropriate choice of field direction, providing a simple
control variable for quantum information processing and a way of tailoring
magnetic interactions in hole spin qubits." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195316 2016-10-06  "['Hung', 'Marcellina', 'Wang', 'Hamilton', 'Culcer']"
1610.02380 "BBGKY chain and kinetic equations for the level dynamics in an
  externally perturbed quantum system" cond-mat.stat-mech "Theoretical description and simulation of large quantum coherent systems out
of equilibrium remains a daunting task. Here we are developing a new approach
to it based on the Pechukas-Yukawa formalism, which is especially convenient in
case of an adiabatically slow external perturbation. In this formalism the
dynamics of energy levels in an externally perturbed quantum system as a
function of the perturbation parameter is mapped on that of a fictitious
one-dimensional classical gas of particles with cubic repulsion. Equilibrium
statistical mechanics of this Pechukas gas allows to reproduce the random
matrix theory of energy levels. In the present work, we develop the
nonequilibrium statistical mechanics of the Pechukas gas, starting with the
derivation of the Bogoliubov-Born-Green-Kirkwood-Yvon (BBGKY) chain of
equations for the appropriate generalized distribution functions. Sets of
approximate kinetic equations can be consistently obtained by breaking this
chain at a particular point (i.e. approximating all higher-order distribution
functions by the products of the lower-order ones). When complemented by the
equations for the level occupation numbers and inter-level transition
amplitudes, they allow to describe the nonequilibrium evolution of the quantum
state of the system, which can describe better a large quantum coherent system
than the currently used approaches. In particular, we find that corrections to
the factorized approximation of the distribution function scale as 1/N, where N
is the number of the ""Pechukas gas particles"" (i.e. energy levels in the
system)." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.032126 2016-10-07 2017-05-30 "['Qureshi', 'Zhong', 'Betouras', 'Zagoskin']"
1610.02674 "Interconnections between equilibrium topology and dynamical quantum
  phase transitions in a linearly ramped Haldane model" cond-mat.stat-mech "We study the behavior of Fisher Zeros (FZs) and dynamical quantum phase
transitions (DQPTs) for a linearly ramped Haldane model occurring in the
subsequent temporal evolution of the same and probe the intimate connection
with the equilibrium topology of the model}. Here, we investigate the temporal
evolution of the final state of the Haldane Hamiltonian (evolving with
time-independent final Hamiltonian) reached following a linear ramping of the
staggered (Semenoff) mass term from an initial to a final value, {first
selecting a specific protocol}, so chosen that the system is ramped from one
non-topological phase to the other through a topological phase. {We establish
the existence of three possible behaviour of areas of FZs corresponding to a
given sector: (i) no-DQPT, (ii) one-DQPT (intermediate) and (iii)two-DQPTs
(re-entrant), depending on the inverse quenching rate $\tau$. Our study also
reveals that the appearance of the areas of FZs is an artefact of the non-zero
(quasi-momentum dependent) Haldane mass ($M_H$), whose absence leads to an
emergent one-dimensional behaviour indicated by the shrinking of the areas FZs
to lines and the non-analyticity in the dynamical ""free energy"" itself.
Moreover, the characteristic rates of crossover between the three behaviour of
FZs are determined by the time-reversal invariant quasi-momentum points of the
Brillouin zone where $M_H$ vanishes. Thus, we observe that through the presence
or absence of $M_H$, there exists an intimate relation to the topological
properties of the equilibrium model even when the ramp drives the system far
away from equilibrium." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184307 2016-10-09 2017-05-12 "['Bhattacharya', 'Dutta']"
1610.04252 "Dark Vibronic Polaritons and the Spectroscopy of Organic Microcavities" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall physics.chem-ph" "Organic microcavities are photonic nanostructures that strongly confine the
electromagnetic field, allowing exotic quantum regimes of light-matter
interaction with disordered organic semiconductors. The unambiguous
interpretation of the spectra of organic microcavities has been a long-standing
challenge due to several competing effects involving electrons, vibrations and
cavity photons. Here we present a theoretical framework that is able to
describe the main spectroscopic features of organic microcavities consistently.
We introduce a class of light-matter excitations called dark vibronic
polaritons, which strongly emit but only weakly absorb light in the same
frequency region of the bare electronic transition. Successful comparison with
experimental data demonstrates the applicability of our theory. The proposed
microscopic understanding of organic microcavities paves the way for the
development of optoelectronic devices enhanced by quantum optics." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.223601 2016-10-13 2016-11-23 "['Herrera', 'Spano']"
1610.04382 "Origin of the inverse energy cascade in two-dimensional quantum
  turbulence" "cond-mat.stat-mech physics.flu-dyn" "We establish a statistical relationship between the inverse energy cascade
and the spatial correlations of clustered vortices in two-dimensional quantum
turbulence. The Kolmogorov spectrum $k^{-5/3}$ on inertial scales $r$
corresponds to a pair correlation function between the vortices with different
signs that decays as a power law with the pair distance given as $r^{-4/3}$. To
test these scaling relations, we propose a novel forced and dissipative point
vortex model that captures the turbulent dynamics of quantized vortices by the
emergent clustering of same-sign vortices. The inverse energy cascade
developing in a statistically neutral system originates from this vortex
clustering that evolves with time." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052144 2016-10-14 2017-05-10 "['Skaugen', 'Angheluta']"
1610.04890 "Ab Initio Calculation of stressed Cesium Iodide lattices and resulting
  Surface Plasmon Resonance Peak shifts" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Alkali halides like Cesium Iodide have received renewed attention as a
material with potential application as detector coating due to the appearance
of Surface Plasmon Resonance absorption peak in their UV-visible absorption
spectrum. The formation of Surface Plasmon Resonance peak has been traced to
the formation of Cesium metal clusters due to the aglomeration of color centers
embedded in Cesium Iodide background. This paper, based on experimental
observation that cubic Cesium Iodide experiences stress due to color centers
forming in the neighborhood and take up tetragonal lattice structure,
investigates the tetragonal Cesium Iodide's band structure and dielectric
constant using ab initio calculations. Both, the band-gap and dielectric
constant of Cesium Iodide, show a systematic variation with changing lattice
constant. While the band-gap is seen to strongly depend on the lattice
parameter `c', the dielectric constant's variation along `a' direction (${\rm
0.2~nm^{-1}}$) was found to be stronger than that along the `c' direction
(${\rm -2.5~nm^{-1}}$). The calculated dielectric constants were used as input
parameter for Gan model calculations of the extinction coefficient and
evaluation of Surface Plasmon Resonance peak position (${\rm \lambda_{max}}$).
A red-shift in ${\rm \lambda_{max}}$ was seen with increasing dielectric
constant that appears with stress acting on Cesium Iodide's lattice."  2016-10-16 2017-05-30 "['Kumar', 'Arun', 'Syrotyuk']"
1610.04913 "Grand Challenges in Quantum Fluids and Solids" cond-mat.other "We present a short review of the current and recent development in the field
of superfluid 3He and 4He. The review is based on the topics discussed at the
NSF sponsoredWorkshop on Grand Challenges in Quantum Fluids and Solids chaired
by Moses Chan from Pennsylvania State University and held at University of
Buffalo in August, 2015."  2016-10-16 2017-05-30 "['Lee', 'Halperin']"
1610.05074 "Phase controlled metal-insulator transition in multi-leg quasiperiodic
  optical lattices" cond-mat.mes-hall "A tight-binding model of a multi-leg ladder network with a continuous
quasiperiodic modulation in both the site potential and the inter-arm hopping
integral is considered. The model mimics optical lattices where ultra-cold
fermionic or bosonic atoms are trapped in double well potentials. It is
observed that, the relative phase difference between the on-site potential and
the inter-arm hopping integral, which can be controlled by the tuning of the
interfering laser beams trapping the cold atoms, can result in a mixed spectrum
of one or more absolutely continuous subband(s) and point like spectral
measures. This opens up the possibility of a re-entrant metal-insulator
transition. The subtle role played by the relative phase difference mentioned
above is revealed, and we corroborate it numerically by working out the
multi-channel electronic transmission for finite two-, and three-leg ladder
networks. The extension of the calculation beyond the two-leg case is trivial,
and is discussed in the work." 10.1016/j.aop.2017.05.008 2016-10-17 2017-05-16 "['Maiti', 'Sil', 'Chakrabarti']"
1610.05279 "Effects of interedge scattering on the Wigner crystallization in
  graphene nanoribbons" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "We investigate the effects of coupling between the two zigzag edges of
graphene nanoribbons on the Wigner crystallization of electrons and holes using
a combination of tight-binding, mean field Hubbard and many-body configuration
interaction methods. We show that the thickness of the nanoribbon plays a
crucial role in the formation of Wigner crystal. For ribbon widths smaller than
16 \mbox{\AA}, increased kinetic energy overcomes the long-range Coulomb
repulsion and suppresses the Wigner crystallization. For wider ribbons up to 38
\mbox{\AA} wide, strong Wigner localization is observed for even number of
electrons, revealing an even-odd effect also found in Coulomb blockade addition
spectrum. Interedge correlations are found to be strong enough to allow
simultaneous crystallization on both edges, although an applied electric field
can decouple the two edges. Finally, we show that Wigner crystallization can
also occurs for holes, albeit weaker than for electrons." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.235103 2016-10-17 2017-05-14 "['Modarresi', 'Güçlü']"
1610.05845 "Anomalous Thermal Diffusivity in Underdoped YBa$_2$Cu$_3$O$_{6+x}$" "cond-mat.supr-con hep-th" "We present local optical measurements of thermal diffusivity in the $ab$
plane of underdoped YBCO crystals. We find that the diffusivity anisotropy is
comparable to reported values of the electrical resistivity anisotropy,
suggesting that the anisotropies have the same origin. The anisotropy drops
sharply below the charge order transition. We interpret our results through a
strong electron-phonon scattering picture and find that both electronic and
phononic contributions to the diffusivity saturate a proposed bound. Our
results suggest that neither well-defined electron nor phonon quasiparticles
are present in this material." 10.1073/pnas.1703416114 2016-10-18 2017-05-15 "['Zhang', 'Levenson-Falk', 'Ramshaw', 'Bonn', 'Liang', 'Hardy', 'Hartnoll', 'Kapitulnik']"
1610.05866 "Anomalous Hall Coulomb drag of massive Dirac fermions" cond-mat.mes-hall "Dirac fermions are actively investigated, and the discovery of the quantized
anomalous Hall effect of massive Dirac fermions has spurred the promise of
low-energy electronics. Some materials hosting Dirac fermions are natural
platforms for interlayer coherence effects such as Coulomb drag and exciton
condensation. Here we determine the role played by the anomalous Hall effect in
Coulomb drag in massive Dirac fermion systems. We focus on topological
insulator films with out-of plane magnetizations in both the active and passive
layers. The transverse response of the active layer is dominated by a
topological term arising from the Berry curvature. We show that the topological
mechanism does not contribute to Coulomb drag, yet the longitudinal drag force
in the passive layer gives rise to a transverse drag current. This anomalous
Hall drag current is independent of the active-layer magnetization, a fact that
can be verified experimentally. It depends non-monotonically on the
passive-layer magnetization, exhibiting a peak that becomes more pronounced at
low densities. These findings should stimulate new experiments and quantitative
studies of anomalous Hall drag." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205435 2016-10-19  "['Liu', 'Liu', 'Culcer']"
1610.05963 "Generating end modes in a superconducting wire by periodic driving of
  the hopping" cond-mat.mes-hall "We show that harmonic driving of either the magnitude or the phase of the
nearest-neighbor hopping amplitude in a p-wave superconducting wire can
generate modes localized near the ends of the wire. The Floquet eigenvalues of
these modes can either be equal to $\pm 1$ (which is known to occur in other
models) or can lie near other values in complex conjugate pairs which is
unusual; we call the latter anomalous end modes. All the end modes have equal
probabilities of particles and holes. If the amplitude of driving is small, we
observe an interesting bulk-boundary correspondence: the Floquet eigenvalues
and the peaks of the Fourier transform of the end modes lie close to the
Floquet eigenvalues and momenta at which the Floquet eigenvalues of the bulk
system have extrema." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174306 2016-10-19 2017-06-01 "['Saha', 'Sivarajan', 'Sen']"
1610.06168 "Lattice effects on nematic quantum criticality in metals" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.supr-con" "Metals near a nematic quantum critical point, where systems are poised to
undergo a zero temperature continuous phase transition that breaks rotational
symmetry, are of great interest for studying the iron superconductors,
cuprates, ruthanates, and quantum Hall systems. Theoretically, it is commonly
held that in the quantum critical regime the electronic excitations become
incoherent on the entire ""hot"" Fermi surface, triggering non Fermi liquid
behavior. However, such conclusions are based on electron-only theories that
ignore a symmetry-allowed coupling between the electronic nematic variable and
a suitable crystalline lattice strain. Here we show that including this
coupling leads to entirely different conclusions because the critical
fluctuations are mostly cutoff by the non-critical lattice shear modes. The
thermodynamics remain Fermi liquid type, while, depending on the Fermi surface
geometry, either the entire Fermi surface stays cold, or at most there are hot
spots. Our results emphasize the importance of this coupling in the study of
nematic quantum criticality." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.227601 2016-10-19  "['Paul', 'Garst']"
1610.06353 "Grain-scale Modeling and Splash Parametrization for Aeolian Sand
  Transport" cond-mat.soft "The collision of a spherical grain with a granular bed is commonly
parametrized by the splash function, which provides the velocity of the
rebounding grain and the velocity distribution and number of ejected grains.
Starting from elementary geometric considerations and physical principles, like
momentum conservation and energy dissipation in inelastic pair collisions, we
derive a rebound parametrization for the collision of a spherical grain with a
granular bed. Combined with a recently proposed energy-splitting model [Ho
${\it et\ al.}$, Phys. Rev. E 85, 052301 (2012)] that predicts how the impact
energy is distributed among the bed grains, this yields a coarse-grained but
complete characterization of the splash as a function of the impact velocity
and the impactor-bed grain-size ratio. The predicted mean values of the rebound
angle, total and vertical restitution, ejection speed, and number of ejected
grains are in excellent agreement with experimental literature data and with
our own discrete-element computer simulations. We extract a set of analytical
asymptotic relations for shallow impact geometries, which can readily be used
in coarse-grained analytical modeling or computer simulations of geophysical
particle-laden flows." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.022902 2016-10-20 2016-12-28 "['Lämmel', 'Dzikowski', 'Oger', 'Valance', 'Kroy']"
1610.06725 "Contact angles of a drop pinned on an incline" cond-mat.soft "For a drop on an incline with small tilt angle or small Bond number, when the
contact line is a circle, we show that the retentive force factor is exactly
pi/2 at first order in the tilt angle or the Bond number. The retentive force
factor is the ratio between the weight component along the slope and a
capillary force defined as surface tension times radius of contact line times
difference of cosines of contact angles at the back and at the front of the
drop. The drop profile is computed exactly in the same approximation. These
results are compared with Surface Evolver results, showing a surprisingly large
range of applicability of first order approximations." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052805 2016-10-21  "['De Coninck', 'Dunlop', 'Huillet']"
1610.07627 "Supersymmetry in the Fractional Quantum Hall Regime" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall hep-th" "Supersymmetry (SUSY) is a symmetry transforming bosons to fermions and vice
versa. Indications of its existence have been extensively sought after in
high-energy experiments. However, signatures of SUSY have yet to be detected.
In this manuscript we propose a condensed matter realization of SUSY on the
edge of a Read-Rezayi quantum Hall state, given by filling factors of the form
$\nu =\frac{k}{k+2}$, where $k$ is an integer. As we show, this strongly
interacting state exhibits an $\mathcal{N}=2$ SUSY. This allows us to use a
topological invariant - the Witten index - defined specifically for
supersymmetric theories, to count the difference between the number of bosonic
and fermionic zero-modes in a circular edge. In our system, we argue that the
edge hosts $k+1$ protected zero-modes. We further discuss the stability of SUSY
with respect to generic perturbations, and find that much of the above results
remain unchanged. In particular, these results directly apply to the
well-established $\nu=1/3$ Laughlin state, in which case SUSY is a highly
robust property of the edge theory. These results unveil a hidden topological
structure on the long-studied Read-Rezayi states." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205144 2016-10-24  "['Sagi', 'Santos']"
1610.07773 "Tan's contact of a harmonically trapped one-dimensional Bose gas:
  strong-coupling expansion and conjectural approach at arbitrary interactions" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study Tan's contact, i.e. the coefficient of the high-momentum tails of
the momentum distribution at leading order, for an interacting one-dimensional
Bose gas subjected to a harmonic confinement. Using a strong-coupling
systematic expansion of the ground-state energy of the homogeneous system
stemming from the Bethe-Ansatz solution, together with the local-density
approximation, we obtain the strong-coupling expansion for Tan's contact of the
harmonically trapped gas. Also, we use a very accurate conjecture for the
ground-state energy of the homogeneous system to obtain an approximate
expression for Tan's contact for arbitrary interaction strength, thus
estimating the accuracy of the strong-coupling expansion. Our results are
relevant for ongoing experiments with ultracold atomic gases." 10.1140/epjst/e2016-60343-6 2016-10-25 2017-01-30 "['Lang', 'Vignolo', 'Minguzzi']"
1610.07915 "Implementation of pairwise longitudinal coupling in a three-qubit
  superconducting circuit" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "We present the ""trimon"", a multi-mode superconducting circuit implementing
three qubits with all-to-all longitudinal coupling. This always-on interaction
enables simple implementation of generalized controlled-NOT gates which form a
universal set. Further, two of the three qubits are protected against Purcell
decay while retaining measurability. We demonstrate high-fidelity state
swapping operations between two qubits and characterize the coupling of all
three qubits to a neighbouring transmon qubit. Our results offer a new paradigm
for multi-qubit architecture with applications in quantum error correction,
quantum simulations and quantum annealing." 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.7.054025 2016-10-25  "['Roy', 'Kundu', 'Chand', 'Hazra', 'Nehra', 'Cosmic', 'Ranadive', 'Patankar', 'Damle', 'Vijay']"
1610.08478 "Interacting fermionic symmetry-protected topological phases in two
  dimensions" cond-mat.str-el "We classify and construct models for two-dimensional (2D) interacting
fermionic symmetry-protected topological (FSPT) phases with general finite
Abelian unitary symmetry $G_f$. To obtain the classification, we couple the
FSPT system to a dynamical discrete gauge field with gauge group $G_f$ and
study braiding statistics in the resulting gauge theory. Under reasonable
assumptions, the braiding statistics data allows us to infer a potentially
complete classification of 2D FSPT phases with Abelian symmetry. The FSPT
models that we construct are simple stacks of the following two kinds of
existing models: (i) free-fermion models and (ii) models obtained through
embedding of bosonic symmetry-protected topological (BSPT) phases.
Interestingly, using these two kinds of models, we are able to realize almost
all FSPT phases in our classification, except for one class. We argue that this
exceptional class of FSPT phases can never be realized through models (i) and
(ii), and therefore can be thought of as intrinsically interacting and
intrinsically fermionic. The simplest example of this class is associated with
$\mathbb Z_4^f\times\mathbb Z_4\times\mathbb Z_4$ symmetry. We show that all 2D
FSPT phases with a finite Abelian symmetry of the form $ \mathbb Z_2^f\times G$
can be realized through the above models (i), or (ii), or a simple stack of
them. Finally, we study the stability of BSPT phases when they are embedded
into fermionic systems." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195147 2016-10-26  "['Wang', 'Lin', 'Gu']"
1610.08888 "Influence of multiorbitals and anisotropic Coulomb interactions on
  isotope effect coefficient in doped Fe-based superconductors" cond-mat.supr-con "The present work describes the theoretical analysis of isotope effect
coefficient as a function of transition temperature in two orbital per site
model Hamiltonian in iron based superconducting system. The expression of
isotope effect coefficient has been computed numerically and self-consistently
by employing Green's function technique within the BCS-mean-field
approximation. It is observed that the isotope effect coefficient increases
with the increase of the hybridization while with the increase in Coulomb
interaction it starts decreasing. On increasing the carrier density per site in
two orbital per site iron pnictide system, isotope effect coefficient
($\alpha$) exhibits large values (much higher than BCS limit) at lower
temperatures. While in the underdoped case, isotope effect coefficient shows
minimum value in superconducting states of the iron based systems. Furthermore,
it has been found that the large value of the isotope effect coefficient is the
indication of the fact that the contribution of phonon alone is inadequate as
the origin of superconductivity in these systems. Finally, the obtained
theoretical results have been compared with experimental and existing
theoretical observations in iron based superconductors." 10.1016/j.physc.2017.04.006 2016-10-27  "['Rani', 'Ajay']"
1610.08993 "The Ergodic Side of the Many-Body Localization Transition" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.str-el" "Recent studies point towards nontriviality of the ergodic phase in systems
exhibiting many-body localization (MBL), which shows subexponential relaxation
of local observables, subdiffusive transport and sublinear spreading of the
entanglement entropy. Here we review the dynamical properties of this phase and
the available numerically exact and approximate methods for its study. We
discuss in which sense this phase could be considered ergodic and present
possible phenomenological explanations of its dynamical properties. We close by
analyzing to which extent the proposed explanations were verified by numerical
studies and present the open questions in this field." 10.1002/andp.201600350 2016-10-27 2017-06-01 "['Luitz', 'Lev']"
1610.08999 "Vortices with source, FQHE and nontrivial statistics in 2+1 dimensions" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el" "We investigate vortex soliton solutions in 2+1 dimensional scalar gauge
theories, in the presence of source terms in the action. Concretely, this would
be applied to anyons, as well as the Fractional Quantum Hall Effect (FQHE). We
classify solitons for renormalizable potentials, as well as some
nonrenormalizable examples that could be relevant for the FQHE. The non-Abelian
case, specifically for theories with global non-Abelian symmetries, is also
investigated, as is the non-relativistic limit of the above theories, when we
get a modification of the Jackiw-Pi model, with an interesting new vortex
solution. We explore the application to the ABJM model, as well as more general
SYM-CS models in 2+1 dimensions."  2016-10-27 2017-05-29 "['Nastase', 'Rojas']"
1610.09275 "Long-Range Repulsion Between Spatially Confined van der Waals Dimers" cond-mat.mes-hall "It is an undisputed textbook fact that non-retarded van der Waals (vdW)
interactions between isotropic dimers are attractive, regardless of the
polarizability of the interacting systems or spatial dimensionality. The
universality of vdW attraction is attributed to the dipolar coupling between
fluctuating electron charge densities. Here we demonstrate that the long-range
interaction between \textit{spatially confined} vdW dimers becomes repulsive
when accounting for the full Coulomb interaction between charge fluctuations.
Our analytic results are obtained by using the Coulomb potential as a
perturbation over dipole-correlated states for two quantum harmonic oscillators
embedded in spaces with reduced dimensionality, however the long-range
repulsion is expected to be a general phenomenon for spatially-confined quantum
systems. We suggest optical experiments to test our predictions, analyze their
relevance in the context of intermolecular interactions in nanoscale
environments, and rationalize the recent observation of anomalously strong
screening of the lateral vdW interactions between aromatic hydrocarbons
adsorbed on metal surfaces." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.210402 2016-10-28 2017-03-29 "['Sadhukhan', 'Tkatchenko']"
1610.09602 "Low-field electron mobility of InSb nanowires: Numerical efforts to
  larger cross sections" cond-mat.mes-hall "Within the framework of Boltzmann equation, we present a $\mathbf{k\cdot p}$
theory based study for the low-field mobilities of InSb nanowires (InSb NWs)
with relatively large cross sectional sizes (with diameters up to 51.8 nm). For
such type of large size nanowires, the intersubband electron-phonon scattering
is of crucial importance to affect the scattering rate and then the mobility.
In our simulation, the lowest 15 electron subbands and 50 transverse modes of
phonons are carefully accounted for. We find that, up to the 51.84 nm diameter,
the mobility monotonously increases with the diameter, not yet showing any
saturated behavior. We also find that, while the bulk InSb mobility is
considerably higher than the bulk Si, the small size (e.g. $\sim 3$ nm
diameter) nanowires from both materials have similar magnitude of mobilities.
This implies, importantly, that the mobility of the InSb NWs would decrease
faster than the SiNWs as we reduce the cross sectional size of the nanowires." 10.1038/s41598-017-02536-z 2016-10-30 2017-02-12 "['Feng', 'Peng', 'Li', 'Li']"
1611.00075 "A hybrid algorithm for parallel molecular dynamics simulations" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.comp-ph" "This article describes algorithms for the hybrid parallelization and SIMD
vectorization of molecular dynamics simulations with short-range forces. The
parallelization method combines domain decomposition with a thread-based
parallelization approach. The goal of the work is to enable efficient
simulations of very large (tens of millions of atoms) and inhomogeneous systems
on many-core processors with hundreds or thousands of cores and SIMD units with
large vector sizes. In order to test the efficiency of the method, simulations
of a variety of configurations with up to 74 million atoms have been performed.
Results are shown that were obtained on multi-core systems with Sandy Bridge
and Haswell processors as well as systems with Xeon Phi many-core processors."  2016-10-31 2017-05-29 "['Mangiardi', 'Meyer']"
1611.00506 "Broadband solid cloak for underwater acoustics" "physics.class-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Application of transformation theory to underwater acoustics has been a
challenging task because highly anisotropic density is unachievable in water. A
possible strategy is to exploit anisotropic modulus rather than density, while
has not been experimentally demonstrated. We present an annular underwater
acoustic cloak designed from particular graded solid microstructures. The
geometry tailored microstructures mimics meta-fluid with highly anisotropic
modulus through substantially suppressed shear wave. Transient wave experiments
are conducted with the cloak in a designed 2D underwater waveguide system and
proved excellent cloaking performance for enclosed target over broadband
frequency 9-15 kHz. This finding paves the way for controlling underwater
acoustics using the structured anisotropic modulus meta-fluid." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.180104 2016-11-02 2017-01-02 "['Chen', 'Zheng', 'Liu', 'Bi', 'Sun', 'Xiang', 'Yang', 'Hu']"
1611.00646 "Spin-Orbit Dimers and Non-Collinear Phases in $d^1$ Cubic Double
  Perovskites" cond-mat.str-el "We formulate and study a spin-orbital model for a family of cubic double
perovskites with $d^1$ ions occupying a frustrated fcc sublattice. A
variational approach and a complimentary analytical analysis reveal a rich
variety of phases emerging from the interplay of Hund's and spin-orbit
couplings (SOC). The phase digram includes non-collinear ordered states, with
or without net moment, and, remarkably, a large window of a non-magnetic
disordered spin-orbit dimer phase. The present theory uncovers the physical
origin of the unusual amorphous valence bond state experimentally suggested for
Ba$_2B$MoO$_6$ ($B$=Y,Lu), and predicts possible ordered patterns in
Ba$_2B$OsO$_6$ ($B$=Na,Li) compounds." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.217202 2016-11-02 2017-05-05 "['Romhányi', 'Balents', 'Jackeli']"
1611.00876 "High pressure synthesis of a hexagonal close-packed phase of the
  high-entropy alloy CrMnFeCoNi" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "High-entropy alloys, near-equiatomic solid solutions of five or more
elements, represent a new strategy for the design of materials with properties
superior to those of conventional alloys. However, their phase space remains
constrained, with transition metal high-entropy alloys exhibiting only face- or
body-centered cubic structures. Here, we report the high-pressure synthesis of
a hexagonal close-packed phase of the prototypical high-entropy alloy
CrMnFeCoNi. This martensitic transformation begins at 14 GPa and is attributed
to suppression of the local magnetic moments, destabilizing the initial fcc
structure. Similar to fcc-to-hcp transformations in Al and the noble gases, the
transformation is sluggish, occurring over a range of >40 GPa. However, the
behaviour of CrMnFeCoNi is unique in that the hcp phase is retained following
decompression to ambient pressure, yielding metastable fcc-hcp mixtures. This
demonstrates a means of tuning the structures and properties of high-entropy
alloys in a manner not achievable by conventional processing techniques." 10.1038/ncomms15634 2016-11-02 2017-05-25 "['Tracy', 'Park', 'Rittman', 'Zinkle', 'Bei', 'Lang', 'Ewing', 'Mao']"
1611.01039 "Entanglement spectra of superconductivity ground states on the honeycomb
  lattice" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "We analytically evaluate the entanglement spectra of the superconductivity
states in graphene, primarily focusing on the s-wave and chiral $
d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}+id_{xy} $ superconductivity states. We demonstrate that the
topology of the entanglement Hamiltonian can differ from that of the subsystem
Hamiltonian. In particular, the topological properties of the entanglement
Hamiltonian of the chiral $ d_{x^{2}-y^{2}}+id_{xy} $ superconductivity state
obtained by tracing out one spin direction clearly differ from those of the
time-reversal invariant Hamiltonian of noninteracting fermions on the honeycomb
lattice."  2016-11-03 2017-05-29 "['Predin', 'Schliemann']"
1611.01453 "The skyrmion switch: turning magnetic skyrmion bubbles on and off with
  an electric field" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Nanoscale magnetic skyrmions are considered as potential information carriers
for future spintronics memory and logic devices. Such applications will require
the control of their local creation and annihilation, which involves so far
solutions that are either energy consuming or difficult to integrate. Here we
demonstrate the control of skyrmion bubbles nucleation and annihilation using
electric field gating, an easily integrable and potentially energetically
efficient solution. We present a detailed stability diagram of the skyrmion
bubbles in a Pt/Co/oxide trilayer and show that their stability can be
controlled via an applied electric field. An analytical bubble model, with the
Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction imbedded in the domain wall energy, account
for the observed electrical skyrmion switching effect. This allows us to unveil
the origin of the electrical control of skyrmions stability and to show that
both magnetic dipolar interaction and the Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction
play an important role in the skyrmion bubble stabilization." 10.1021/acs.nanolett.7b00328 2016-11-04 2017-04-18 "['Schott', 'Bernand-Mantel', 'Ranno', 'Pizzini', 'Vogel', 'Béa', 'Baraduc', 'Auffret', 'Gaudin', 'Givord']"
1611.01516 "Entanglement from Topology in Chern-Simons Theory" "quant-ph cond-mat.str-el hep-th" "The way in which geometry encodes entanglement is a topic of much recent
interest in quantum many-body physics and the AdS/CFT duality. This relation is
particularly pronounced in the case of topological quantum field theories,
where topology alone determines the quantum states of the theory. In this work,
we study the set of quantum states that can be prepared by the Euclidean path
integral in three-dimensional Chern-Simons theory. Specifically, we consider
arbitrary 3-manifolds with a fixed number of torus boundaries in both abelian
U(1) and non-abelian SO(3) Chern-Simons theory. For the abelian theory, we find
that the states that can be prepared coincide precisely with the set of
stabilizer states from quantum information theory. This constrains the
multipartite entanglement present in this theory, but it also reveals that
stabilizer states can be described by topology. In particular, we find an
explicit expression for the entanglement entropy of a many-torus subsystem
using only a single replica, as well as a concrete formula for the number of
GHZ states that can be distilled from a tripartite state prepared through path
integration. For the nonabelian theory, we find a notion of ""state
universality"", namely that any state can be prepared to an arbitrarily good
approximation. The manifolds we consider can also be viewed as toy models of
multi-boundary wormholes in AdS/CFT." 10.1103/PhysRevD.95.105007 2016-11-04 2016-11-17 "['Salton', 'Swingle', 'Walter']"
1611.01518 "Quantum Loop Topography for Machine Learning" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mes-hall" "Despite rapidly growing interest in harnessing machine learning in the study
of quantum many-body systems, training neural networks to identify quantum
phases is a nontrivial challenge. The key challenge is in efficiently
extracting essential information from the many-body Hamiltonian or wave
function and turning the information into an image that can be fed into a
neural network. When targeting topological phases, this task becomes
particularly challenging as topological phases are defined in terms of
non-local properties. Here we introduce quantum loop topography (QLT): a
procedure of constructing a multi-dimensional image from the ""sample""
Hamiltonian or wave function by evaluating two-point operators that form loops
at independent Monte Carlo steps. The loop configuration is guided by
characteristic response for defining the phase, which is Hall conductivity for
the cases at hand. Feeding QLT to a fully-connected neural network with a
single hidden layer, we demonstrate that the architecture can be effectively
trained to distinguish Chern insulator and fractional Chern insulator from
trivial insulators with high fidelity. In addition to establishing the first
case of obtaining a phase diagram with topological quantum phase transition
with machine learning, the perspective of bridging traditional condensed matter
theory with machine learning will be broadly valuable." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.216401 2016-11-04 2017-02-10 "['Zhang', 'Kim']"
1611.01691 "Vortex reconnections and rebounds in trapped atomic Bose--Einstein
  condensates" cond-mat.quant-gas "Reconnections and interactions of filamentary coherent structures play a
fundamental role in the dynamics of fluids, plasmas and nematic liquid
crystals. In fluids, vortex reconnections redistribute energy and helicity
among the length scales and induce fine-scale turbulent mixing. Unlike ordinary
fluids where vorticity is a continuous field, in quantum fluids vorticity is
concentrated into discrete (quantized) vortex lines turning vortex
reconnections into isolated events, making it conceptually easier to study.
Here we report experimental and numerical observations of three-dimensional
quantum vortex interactions in a cigar-shaped atomic Bose-Einstein Condensate
(BEC). In addition to standard reconnections, already numerically and
experimentally observed in homogeneous systems away from boundaries, we show
that double reconnections, rebounds and ejections can also occur as a
consequence of the non-homogeneous, confined nature of the system." 10.1103/PhysRevX.7.021031 2016-11-05 2017-05-05 "['Serafini', 'Galantucci', 'Iseni', 'Bienaimé', 'Bisset', 'Barenghi', 'Dalfovo', 'Lamporesi', 'Ferrari']"
1611.01737 "Quasiclassical theory of magnetoelectric effects in superconducting
  heterostructures in the presence of the spin-orbit coupling" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mes-hall" "The quasiclassical theory in terms of equations for the Green's functions
(Eilenberger equations) is generalized in order to allow for quantitative
description of the magneto-electric effects and proximity-induced triplet
correlations in the presence of spin-orbit coupling in hybrid superconducting
systems. The formalism is valid under the condition that the spin-orbit
coupling is weak with respect to the Fermi energy, but exceeds the
superconducting energy scale considerably. On the basis of the derived
formalism it is shown that the triplet correlations in the spin-orbit coupled
normal metal can be induced by proximity to a singlet superconductor without
any exchange or external magnetic field. They contain an odd-frequency
even-momentum component, which is stable against disorder. The value of the
proximity-induced triplet correlations is of the order of
$\Delta_{so}/\varepsilon_F$, that is absent in the framework of the standard
quasiclassical approximation, but can be described by our theory. The spin
polarization, induced by the Josephson current flowing through the
superconductor/Rashba metal/superconductor junction, is also calculated." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184518 2016-11-06  "['Bobkova', 'Bobkov']"
1611.02173 "Time-reversal and rotation symmetry breaking superconductivity in Dirac
  materials" cond-mat.supr-con "We consider mixed symmetry superconducting phases in Dirac materials in the
odd parity channel, where pseudoscalar and vector order parameters can coexist
due to their similar critical temperatures when attractive interactions are of
finite range. We show that the coupling of these order parameters to unordered
magnetic dopants favors the condensation of novel time-reversal symmetry
breaking (TRSB) phases, characterized by a condensate magnetization, rotation
symmetry breaking, and simultaneous ordering of the dopant moments. We find a
rich phase diagram of mixed TRSB phases characterized by peculiar bulk
quasiparticles, with Weyl nodes and nodal lines, and distinctive surface
states. These findings are consistent with recent experiments on
Nb$_x$Bi$_2$Se$_3$ that report evidence of point nodes, nematicity, and TRSB
superconductivity induced by Nb magnetic moments." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201110 2016-11-07 2017-05-27 "['Chirolli', 'de Juan', 'Guinea']"
1611.02722 "Ballistic quantum transport through Ge/Si core/shell nanowires" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study ballistic hole transport through Ge/Si core/shell nanowires at low
temperatures. We observe Fabry-P$\acute{e}$rot interference patterns as well as
conductance plateaus at integer multiples of 2e$^2$/h at zero magnetic field.
Magnetic field evolution of these plateaus reveals large effective
Land$\acute{e}$ g-factors. Ballistic effects are observed in nanowires with
silicon shell thicknesses of 1 - 3 nm, but not in bare germanium wires. These
findings inform the future development of spin and topological quantum devices
which rely on ballistic subband-resolved transport."  2016-11-08 2017-05-26 "['Kotekar-Patil', 'Nguyen', 'Yoo', 'Dayeh', 'Frolov']"
1611.02728 "Unoriented 3d TFTs" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el math.GT math.QA" "This paper generalizes two facts about oriented 3d TFTs to the unoriented
case. On one hand, it is known that oriented 3d TFTs having a topological
boundary condition admit a state-sum construction known as the Turaev-Viro
construction. This is related to the string-net construction of fermionic
phases of matter. We show how Turaev-Viro construction can be generalized to
unoriented 3d TFTs. On the other hand, it is known that the ""fermionic""
versions of oriented TFTs, known as Spin-TFTs, can be constructed in terms of
""shadow"" TFTs which are ordinary oriented TFTs with an anomalous $\mathbb{Z}_2$
1-form symmetry. We generalize this correspondence to Pin$^+$-TFTs by showing
that they can be constructed in terms of ordinary unoriented TFTs with
anomalous $\mathbb{Z}_2$ 1-form symmetry having a mixed anomaly with
time-reversal symmetry. The corresponding Pin$^+$-TFT does not have any anomaly
for time-reversal symmetry however and hence it can be unambiguously defined on
a non-orientable manifold. In case a Pin$^+$-TFT admits a topological boundary
condition, one can combine the above two statements to obtain a
Turaev-Viro-like construction of Pin$^+$-TFTs. As an application of these
ideas, we construct a large class of Pin$^+$-SPT phases." 10.1007/JHEP05(2017)048 2016-11-08 2017-03-26 ['Bhardwaj']
1611.03234 "High-pressure study of the ground- and superconducting-state properties
  of CeAu$_2$Si$_2$" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.supr-con" "The pressure-temperature-phase diagram of the new heavy-fermion
superconductor CeAu$_2$Si$_2$ is markedly different from those studied
previously. Indeed, superconductivity emerges, not on the verge, but deep
inside the magnetic phase. In this context, we have carried out ac-calorimetry,
resistivity and thermoelectric power measurements on a CeAu$_2$Si$_2$-single
crystal under high-pressure. The principal novelties of this experiment are the
observation of a new transition line, presumably a magnetic structure
rearrangement at $T_{\mathrm{M}}^{\mathrm{mod}}$ inside the antiferromagnetic
phase, and the occurrence of quantum critical behavior in resistivity linked to
superconductivity. Strong non-Fermi-liquid behavior is observed around the
maximum of superconductivity and enhanced scattering rates are observed close
to both the emergence and the maximum of superconductivity. Intriguingly,
$T_{\mathrm{M}}^{\mathrm{mod}}$ almost coincides with the onset of the
superconducting transition over a broad pressure range, where mysteriously Tc
increases with the strengthening of magnetism. A comparison of the features in
CeAu$_2$Si$_2$ and its parent compounds CeCu$_2$Si$_2$ and CeCu$_2$Ge$_2$
plotted as function of the unit-cell volume leads us to promote that critical
fluctuations of a valence crossover play a crucial role in the superconducting
paring mechanism. Our study reveals new intriguing features of magnetism and
illustrates a complex interplay between magnetism, quantum criticality and
superconductivity." 10.7566/JPSJ.86.064710 2016-11-10 2017-06-01 "['Scheerer', 'Giriat', 'Ren', 'Lapertot', 'Jaccard']"
1611.03332 "Pick-up and impact of flexible bodies" "physics.class-ph cond-mat.soft" "Picking up, laying down, colliding, rolling, and peeling are partial-contact
interactions involving moving discontinuities. We examine the balances of
momentum and energy across a moving discontinuity in a string, with allowance
for injection or dissipation by singular supplies. We split the energy
dissipation according to its invariance properties, discuss analogies with
systems of particles and connections with the literature on shocks and phase
transition fronts in various bodies, and derive a compatibility relation
between supplies of momentum and translation-invariant energy. For a moving
contact discontinuity between a string and a smooth rigid plane in the presence
of gravity, we find a surprising asymmetry between the processes of picking up
and laying down, such that steady-state kinks in geometry and associated jumps
in tension are not admissible during pick-up. This prediction is consistent
with experimental observations. We briefly discuss related problems including
the falling folded chain, peeling of an adhesive tape, and the ""chain
fountain"". Our approach is applicable to the study of impact and locomotion,
and to systems such as moored floating structures and some musical instruments
that feature vibrating string and cable elements interacting with a surface." 10.1016/j.jmps.2017.04.019 2016-11-10 2017-02-19 "['Singh', 'Hanna']"
1611.03779 "Continuous Matrix Product States for Quantum Fields: an Energy
  Minimization Algorithm" cond-mat.str-el "The generalization of matrix product states (MPS) to continuous systems, as
proposed in the breakthrough paper [F. Verstraete, J.I. Cirac, Phys. Rev. Lett.
104, 190405(2010)], provides a powerful variational ansatz for the ground state
of strongly interacting quantum field theories in one spatial dimension. A
continuous MPS (cMPS) approximation to the ground state can be obtained by
simulating an Euclidean time evolution. In this Letter we propose a cMPS
optimization algorithm based instead on energy minimization by gradient
methods, and demonstrate its performance by applying it to the Lieb Liniger
model (an integrable model of an interacting bosonic field) directly in the
thermodynamic limit. We observe a very significant computational speed-up, of
more than two orders of magnitude, with respect to simulating an Euclidean time
evolution. As a result, much larger cMPS bond dimension D can be reached (e.g.
D = 256 with moderate computational resources) thus helping unlock the full
potential of the cMPS representation for ground state studies." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.220402 2016-11-11 2017-05-29 "['Ganahl', 'Rincon', 'Vidal']"
1611.04752 "3D computation of non-linear eddy currents: variational method and
  superconducting cubic bulk" cond-mat.supr-con "Computing the electric eddy currents in non-linear materials, such as
superconductors, is \E{not straightforward}. The design of superconducting
magnets and power applications needs electromagnetic computer modeling, being
in many cases a three-dimensional (3D) problem. Since 3D problems require high
computing times, novel time-efficient modeling tools are highly desirable. This
article presents a novel computing modeling method based on a variational
principle. The self-programmed implementation uses an original minimization
method, which divides the sample into sectors. This speeds-up the computations
with no loss of accuracy, while enabling efficient parallelization. This method
could also be applied to model transients in linear materials or networks of
non-linear electrical elements. As example, we analyze the magnetization
currents of a cubic superconductor. This 3D situation remains unknown, in spite
of the fact that it is often met in material characterization and bulk
applications. We found that below the penetration field and in part of the
sample, current flux lines are not rectangular and significantly bend in the
direction parallel to the applied field. In conclusion, the presented numerical
method is able to time-efficiently solve fully 3D situations without loss of
accuracy." 10.1016/j.jcp.2017.05.001 2016-11-15 2017-06-01 "['Pardo', 'Kapolka']"
1611.04820 "Information transport in classical statistical systems" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.quant-gas hep-lat quant-ph" "For ""static memory materials"" the bulk properties depend on boundary
conditions. Such materials can be realized by classical statistical systems
which admit no unique equilibrium state. We describe the propagation of
information from the boundary to the bulk by classical wave functions. The
dependence of wave functions on the location of hypersurfaces in the bulk is
governed by a linear evolution equation that can be viewed as a generalized
Schr\""odinger equation. Classical wave functions obey the superposition
principle, with local probabilities realized as bilinears of wave functions.
For static memory materials the evolution within a subsector is unitary, as
characteristic for the time evolution in quantum mechanics. The
space-dependence in static memory materials can be used as an analogue
representation of the time evolution in quantum mechanics - such materials are
""quantum simulators"". For example, an asymmetric Ising model represents the
time evolution of free relativistic fermions in two-dimensional Minkowski
space."  2016-11-15 2017-05-26 ['Wetterich']
1611.04862 "Lagrangian 3D tracking of fluorescent microscopic objects in motion" "cond-mat.soft physics.bio-ph" "We describe the development of a tracking device, mounted on an
epi-fluorescent inverted microscope, suited to obtain time resolved 3D
Lagrangian tracks of fluorescent passive or active micro-objects in
micro-fluidic devices. The system is based on real-time image processing,
determining the displacement of a x,y mechanical stage to keep the chosen
object at a fixed position in the observation frame. The z displacement is
based on the refocusing of the fluorescent object determining the displacement
of a piezo mover keeping the moving object in focus. Track coordinates of the
object with respect to the micro-fluidic device, as well as images of the
object are obtained at a frequency of several tenths of Hertz. This device is
particularly well adapted to obtain trajectories of motile micro-organisms in
micro-fluidic devices with or without flow." 10.1063/1.4982820 2016-11-15 2017-03-10 "['Darnige', 'Figueroa-Morales', 'Bohec', 'Lindner', 'Clément']"
1611.05049 "Duality and bosonization of (2+1)d Majorana fermions" cond-mat.str-el "We construct a dual bosonized description of a massless Majorana fermion in
$(2+1)d$. In contrast to Dirac fermions, for which a bosonized description can
be constructed using a flux attachment procedure, neutral Majorana fermions
call for a different approach. We argue that the dual theory is an $SO(N)_1$
Chern-Simons gauge theory with a critical $SO(N)$ vector bosonic matter field
($N \geq 3$). The monopole of the $SO(N)$ gauge field is identified with the
Majorana fermion. We provide evidence for the duality by establishing the
correspondence of adjacent gapped phases and by a parton construction. We also
propose a generalization of the duality to $N_f$ flavors of Majorana fermions,
and discuss possible resolutions of a caveat associated with an emergent global
$Z_2$ symmetry. Finally, we conjecture a dual description of an $\mathcal{N} =
1$ supersymmetric fixed point in $(2+1)d$, which is realized by tuning a single
flavor of Majorana fermions to an interacting (Gross-Neveu) critical point." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205137 2016-11-15  "['Metlitski', 'Vishwanath', 'Xu']"
1611.05169 "Switching based Spin Transfer Torque Oscillator with zero-bias field and
  large tuning-ratio" cond-mat.mes-hall "We propose a novel concept of obtaining oscillations with frequencies in
very-high frequency (VHF) and ultra-high frequency (UHF) bands. A traditional
spin torque nano-oscillator (STNO) consists of at least one pinned layer (PL)
and one free layer (FL) which precesses in a fixed orbit, defined by a
precession angle, which results in magneto-resistance (MR) oscillations. In
STNO, with aligned or even orthogonal easy-axis of the magnetic layers and with
or without external bias magnetic field, it is not possible to attain full MR
swing. The constringed MR swing jeopardizes the extracted output power.
Furthermore, the orbit is strongly disturbed by the thermal fluctuations
resulting in strong magnetic noise. In stark contrast to the operation
principle of a STNO, we theoretically demonstrate, with the practical
parameters from the experiments, that with a unidirectional current in a dual
asymmetric free-layers (with no pinned layer) based perpendicular magnetic
tunnel junction (pMTJ), both of the free layers can attain a complete and
out-of-phase self-sustained switching without the aid of any external magnetic
field. This design facilitates a switching based spin torque oscillator
(SW-STO) with a full MR swing, and hence a larger output power, for stable and
more thermally robust free-running oscillations. Furthermore, the integration
with the n-type metal-oxide-semiconductor (NMOS) field-effect transistors at
130, 65 and 14 nm node is appraised to expound its effect on the oscillator
performance, controllability with DC bias and the design constraints, to
demonstrate the viability of the design as a dynamically controllable
oscillator for practical on-chip implementation."  2016-11-16 2017-06-02 "['Gupta', 'Zhu', 'Liang']"
1611.05235 "Understanding looping kinetics of a long polymer molecule in solution.
  Exact solution for delta function sink model" cond-mat.stat-mech "A diffusion theory for intramolecular reactions of polymer chain in dilute
solution is formulated. We give a detailed analytical expression for
calculation of rate of polymer looping in solution. The physical problem of
looping can be modeled mathematically with the use of a Smoluchowski like
equation with a Dirac delta function sink of finite strength. The solution of
this equation is expressed in terms of Laplace Transform of the Greens function
for end to end motion of the polymer in absence of the sink. We have defined
two different rate constants, the long term rate constant and the short term
rate constant. The short term rate constant and long term rate constant varies
with several parameters such as length of the polymer, bond length and the
relaxation time. The long term rate constant is independent of the initial
probability distribution." 10.1016/j.physa.2017.04.083 2016-11-16  "['Ganguly', 'Chakraborty']"
1611.05639 "Engineering electronic states of periodic and quasiperiodic chains by
  buckling" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mes-hall" "The spectrum of spinless, non-interacting electrons on a linear chain that is
buckled in a non- uniform manner giving it a flavor of a topologically
disordered lattice, is investigated within a tight binding formalism. We have
addressed two specific cases, viz., a perfectly periodic chain wrinkled in a
quasiperiodic Fibonacci pattern, and a quasiperiodic Fibonacci chain, where the
buckling also takes place in a Fibonacci pattern. The buckling brings distant
neighbors in the parent chain to close proximity, which is simulated by a
tunnel hopping amplitude. It is seen that, in the perfectly ordered case,
increasing the strength of the tunnel hopping (that is, bending the segments
more) absolutely continuous density of states is retained towards the edges of
the band, while the central portion becomes fragmented and host subbands of
narrowing widths containing extended, current carrying states, and multiple
isolated bound states formed as a result of the bending. A switching on and off
of the electronic transmission can thus be engineered by buckling. On the other
hand, in the second example of a quasiperiodic Fibonacci chain, imparting a
quasiperiodic buckling is found to generate continuous subband(s) destroying
the usual multifractality of the energy spectrum. We present exact results
based on a real space renormalization group analysis, that is corroborated by
explicit calculation of the two terminal electronic transport." 10.1016/j.physleta.2017.05.004 2016-11-17 2017-05-26 "['Mukherjee', 'Nandy', 'Chakrabarti']"
1611.05813 "Large bipolarons and oxide superconductivity" cond-mat.supr-con "Large-bipolaron superconductivity is plausible with carrier densities well
below those of conventional metals. Bipolarons form when carriers self-trap in
pairs. Coherently moving large-bipolarons require extremely large ratios of
static to optical dielectric-constants. The mutual Coulomb repulsion of a
planar large-bipolarons paired carriers drives it to a four-lobed shape. A
phonon-mediated attraction among large-bipolarons propels their condensation
into a liquid. This liquids excitations move slowly with a huge effective mass.
Excitations concomitant weak scattering by phonons produces a moderate
low-temperature dc resistivity that increases linearly with rising temperature.
With falling temperature an energy gap opens between large-bipolarons
excitations and those of their self-trapped electronic carriers." 10.1117/12.2261717 2016-11-17 2016-12-03 ['Emin']
1611.05828 "Absorption and Photoluminescence in Organic Cavity QED" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall physics.chem-ph" "Organic microcavities can be engineered to reach exotic quantum regimes of
strong and ultrastrong light-matter coupling. However, the microscopic
interpretation of their spectroscopic signals can be challenging due to the
competition between coherent and dissipative processes involving electrons,
vibrations and cavity photons. We develop here a theoretical framework based on
the Holstein-Tavis-Cummings model and a Markovian treatment of dissipation to
account for previously unexplained spectroscopic features of organic
microcavities consistently. We identify conditions for the formation of dark
vibronic polaritons, a new class of light-matter excitations that are not
visible in absorption but lead to strong photoluminescence lines. We show that
photon leakage from dark vibronic polaritons can be responsible for enhancing
photoluminescence at the lower polariton frequency, and also explain the
apparent breakdown of reciprocity between absorption and emission in the
vicinity of the bare molecular transition frequency. Successful comparison with
experimental data demonstrates the applicability of our theory." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053867 2016-11-17  "['Herrera', 'Spano']"
1611.05877 "Holographic Dynamics from Multiscale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz" "cond-mat.str-el hep-th" "The Multiscale Entanglement Renormalization Ansatz (MERA) is a tensor network
based variational ansatz that is capable of capturing many of the key physical
properties of strongly correlated ground states such as criticality and
topological order. MERA also shares many deep relationships with the AdS/CFT
(gauge-gravity) correspondence by realizing a UV complete holographic duality
within the tensor networks framework. Motivated by this, we have re-purposed
the MERA tensor network as an analysis tool to study the real-time evolution of
the 1D transverse Ising model in its low energy excited state sector. We
performed this analysis by allowing the ancilla qubits of the MERA tensor
network to acquire quantum fluctuations, which yields a unitary transform
between the physical (boundary) and ancilla qubit (bulk) Hilbert spaces. This
then defines a reversible quantum circuit which is used as a `holographic
transform' to study excited states and their real-time dynamics from the point
of the bulk ancillae. In the gapped paramagnetic phase of the transverse field
Ising model, we demonstrate the holographic duality between excited states
induced by single spin-flips (Ising `magnons') acting on the ground state and
single ancilla qubit spin-flips. The single ancillae qubit excitation is shown
to be stable in the bulk under real-time evolution and hence defines a stable
holographic quasiparticle which we have named the `hologron'. The `dictionary'
between the bulk and boundary is determined and realizes many features of the
holographic correspondence in a non-CFT limit of the boundary theory. As an
added spin-off, this dictionary together with the extension to multi-hologron
sectors gives us a systematic way to construct quantitatively accurate low
energy effective Hamiltonians." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195152 2016-11-17  "['Chua', 'Passias', 'Tiwari', 'Ryu']"
1611.05976 "Determining a hopping polarons bandwidth from its Seebeck coefficient:
  Measuring the disorder energy of a non-crystalline semiconductor" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.dis-nn" "Charge carriers that execute multi-phonon hopping generally interact strongly
enough with phonons to form polarons. A polarons sluggish motion is linked to
slowly shifting atomic displacements that severely reduce the intrinsic width
of its transport band. Here a means to estimate hopping polarons bandwidths
from Seebeck-coefficient measurements is described. The magnitudes of
semiconductors Seebeck coefficients are usually quite large (greater than 86
microvolts/K) near room temperature. However, in accord with the third law of
thermodynamics, Seebeck coefficients must vanish at absolute zero. Here the
transition of the Seebeck coefficient of hopping polarons to its
low-temperature regime is investigated. The temperature and sharpness of this
transition depends on the concentration of carriers and on the width of their
transport band. This feature provides a means of estimating the width of a
polarons transport band. Since the intrinsic broadening of polaron bands is
very small, less than the characteristic phonon energy, the net widths of
polaron transport bands in disordered semiconductors approach the energetic
disorder experienced by their hopping carriers, their disorder energy." 10.1063/1.4940373 2016-11-18  ['Emin']
1611.07018 "Reduction of friction by normal oscillations. II. In-plane system
  dynamics" "nlin.CD cond-mat.soft" "The influence of out-of-plane oscillations on friction is a well-known
phenomenon that has been studied extensively with various experimental methods,
e.g. pin-on-disk tribometers. However, existing theoretical models have yet
achieved only qualitative correspondence with experiment. Here we argue that
this may be due to the system dynamics (mass and tangential stiffness) of the
pin or other system components being neglected. This paper builds on the
results of a previous study (Popov M. et al. Friction, 2016, submitted) by
taking the stiffness and resulting dynamics of the system into account. The
main governing parameters determining macroscopic friction, including a
dimensionless oscillation amplitude, a dimensionless sliding velocity and the
relation between three characteristic frequencies (that of externally excited
oscillation and two natural oscillation frequencies associated with the contact
stiffness and the system stiffness) are identified. In the limiting cases of a
very soft system and a very stiff system, our results reproduce the results of
previous studies. In between these two limiting cases there is also a resonant
case, which is studied here for the first time. The resonant case is notable in
that it lacks a critical sliding velocity, above which oscillations no longer
reduce friction. Results obtained for the resonant case are qualitatively
supported by experiments." 10.1007/s40544-017-0146-x 2016-11-21  "['Mao', 'Popov', 'Starcevic', 'Popov']"
1611.07052 "Spectral flow and global topology of the Hofstadter butterfly" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study the relation between the global topology of the Hofstadter butterfly
of a multiband insulator and the topological invariants of the underlying
Hamiltonian. The global topology of the butterfly, i.e., the displacement of
the energy gaps as the magnetic field is varied by one flux quantum, is
determined by the spectral flow of energy eigenstates crossing gaps as the
field is tuned. We find that for each gap this spectral flow is equal to the
topological invariant of the gap, i.e., the net number of edge modes traversing
the gap. For periodically driven systems, our results apply to the spectrum of
quasienergies. In this case, the spectral flow of the sum of all the
quasienergies gives directly the Rudner invariant." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.216801 2016-11-21  "['Asboth', 'Alberti']"
1611.07074 "Path-integral formula for local thermal equilibrium" "hep-th cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech hep-ph nucl-th" "We develop a complete path-integral formulation of relativistic quantum
fields in local thermal equilibrium, which brings about the emergence of
thermally induced curved spacetime. The resulting action is shown to have full
diffeomorphism invariance and gauge invariance in thermal spacetime with
imaginary-time independent backgrounds. This leads to the notable symmetry
properties of emergent thermal spacetime: Kaluza-Klein gauge symmetry, spatial
diffeomorphism symmetry, and gauge symmetry. A thermodynamic potential in local
thermal equilibrium, or the so-called Masseiu-Planck functional, is identified
as a generating functional for conserved currents such as the energy-momentum
tensor and the electric current." 10.1016/j.aop.2017.04.004 2016-11-21  ['Hongo']
1611.07482 "Electric-field Induced Reversible Switching of the Magnetic Easy-axis in
  Co/BiFeO3/SrRuO3/SrTiO3 Heterostructures" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Electric-field (E-field) control of magnetism enabled by multiferroics has
the potential to revolutionize the landscape of present memory devices plagued
with high energy dissipation. To date, this E-field controlled multiferroic
scheme at room temperature has only been demonstrated using BiFeO3 (BFO) films
grown on DyScO3 (refs 1 and 2), a unique and expensive substrate, which gives
rise to a particular ferroelectric domain pattern in BFO. Here, we demonstrate
reversible E-field-induced switching of the magnetic state of the Co layer in
Co/BFO (001) thin film heterostructures fabricated on SrTiO3 substrates. The
angular dependence of the coercivity and the remanent magnetization of the Co
layer indicates that its easy axis reversibly switches by 45{\deg} back and
forth between the (100) and the (110) crystallographic directions of SrTiO3 as
a result of alternating application of positive and negative voltage pulses on
BFO. The coercivity of the Co layer exhibits a hysteretic behavior between two
states as a function of voltage. To explain the observation, we have also
measured the exact canting angle of the antiferromagnetic G-type domain in BFO
films for the first time using neutron diffraction. These results suggest a
pathway to integrating BFO-based devices on Si wafers for implementing low
power consumption and non-volatile magnetoelectronic devices." 10.1021/acs.nanolett.6b05152 2016-11-22  "['Gao', 'Zhang', 'Ratcliff', 'Maruyama', 'Murakami', 'Anbusathaiah', 'Yamani', 'Chen', 'Shull', 'Ramesh', 'Takeuchi']"
1611.07665 "Carnot efficiency is reachable in an irreversible process" cond-mat.stat-mech "In thermodynamics, there exists a conventional belief that ""the Carnot
efficiency is reachable only when a process is reversible."" However, there is
no theorem proving that the Carnot efficiency is unattainable in an
irreversible process. Here, we show that the Carnot efficiency is reachable in
an irreversible process through investigation of the Feynman-Smoluchowski
ratchet (FSR). We also show that it is possible to enhance the efficiency by
increasing the irreversibility. Our result opens a new possibility of designing
an efficient heat engine in a highly irreversible process and also answers the
long-standing question of whether the FSR can operate with the Carnot
efficiency."  2016-11-23 2017-05-29 "['Lee', 'Park']"
1611.07919 "Enhanced qubit readout using locally-generated squeezing and inbuilt
  Purcell-decay suppression" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "We introduce and analyze a dispersive qubit readout scheme where two-mode
squeezing is generated directly in the measurement cavities. The resulting
suppression of noise enables fast, high- fidelity readout of naturally weakly
coupled qubits, and the possibility to protect strongly coupled qubits from
decoherence by weakening their coupling. Unlike other approaches exploiting
squeezing, our setup avoids the difficult task of transporting and injecting
with high fidelity an externally-generated squeezed state. Our setup is also
surprisingly robust against unwanted non-QND backaction effects, as
interference naturally suppresses Purcell decay: the system acts as its own
Purcell filter. Our setup is compatible with the experimental state-of-the-art
in circuit QED systems, but the basic idea could also be realized in other
systems." 10.1088/1367-2630/aa5f7b 2016-11-23 2017-06-05 "['Govia', 'Clerk']"
1611.08032 "Functionality-directed Screening of Pb-free Hybrid Organic-inorganic
  Perovskites with Desired Intrinsic Photovoltaic Functionalities" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The material class of hybrid organic-inorganic perovskites has risen rapidly
from a virtually unknown material in photovoltaic applications a short 7 years
ago into a ~20% efficient thin-film solar cell material. As promising as this
class of materials is, however, there are limitations associated with its poor
long-term stability, non-optimal band gap, presence of environmentally-toxic Pb
element, etc. We herein apply a functionality-directed theoretical materials
selection approach as a filter for initial screening of the compounds that
satisfy the desired intrinsic photovoltaic functionalities and might overcome
the above limitations. First-principles calculations are employed to
systemically study thermodynamic stability and photovoltaic-related properties
of hundred of candidate hybrid perovskites. We have identified in this
materials selection process fourteen Ge and Sn-based materials with potential
superior bulk-material-intrinsic photovoltaic performance. A distinct class of
compounds containing NH3COH$^+$ with the organic molecule derived states
intriguingly emerging at band-edges is found. Comparison of various candidate
materials offers insights on how composition variation and microscopic
structural changes affect key photovoltaic relevant properties in this family
of materials." 10.1021/acs.chemmater.6b03221 2016-11-23 2016-12-06 "['Yang', 'Lv', 'Zhao', 'Xu', 'Fu', 'Zhan', 'Zunger', 'Zhang']"
1611.08448 "Nanoscale capillary freezing of ionic liquids confined between metallic
  interfaces and the role of electronic screening" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Room temperature Ionic liquids (RTIL) received considerable attention as a
new class of materials with fundamental importance for energy storage
\cite{Armand2009, Uesugi2013} and active lubrication \cite{Palacio2010,
Dold2015, Smith2013a}. Their unique properties result from the competition of
strong electrostatic interactions with properly designed molecular structure to
avoid crystalization at room temperature. They are however unsual liquids,
which challenge fundamentally the classical frameworks of electrolytes. In
particular their behavior at electrified interfaces remains elusive with very
rich and exotic responses relevant to their electrochemical activity
\cite{Kornyshev2014,Merlet2012,Perkin2013,Atkin2009,Rotenberg2015,Endres2012,Bovio2009a,Bovio2009,Yokota2010}.
In this work, we use quartz tuning fork based AFM nanorheological measurements
to explore the properties of RTIL in nanometric confinement. We unveil a
dramatic change of the RTIL towards a solid-like phase below a threshold
thickness, pointing to a capillary freezing in confinement. This threshold
thickness is found to be intimately related to the metallic nature of the
confining materials, with more metallic surfaces facilitating capillary
freezing. This behavior is interpreted theoretically in terms of the shift of
the freezing transition, taking into account the influence of the electronic
screening on RTIL wetting of the confining surfaces, as described by the simple
Thomas-Fermi approach. Our findings provides fresh views on the properties of
confined RTIL with important implications for their statics and dynamics inside
nanoporous metallic structures. This also suggests applications to tune
nanoscale lubrication with the phase-changing RTIL, by varying the nature as
well as the patterning of the subtrate, and the application of active
polarisation." 10.1038/nmat4880 2016-11-25  "['Comtet', 'Niguès', 'Kaiser', 'Bocquet', 'Siria']"
1611.08701 "Universal Depinning Transition of Domain Walls in Ultrathin Ferromagnets" cond-mat.dis-nn "We present a quantitative and comparative study of magnetic field driven
domain wall depinning transition in different ferromagnetic ultrathin films
over a wide range of temperature. We reveal a universal scaling function
accounting for both drive and thermal effects on the depinning transition,
including critical exponents. The consistent description we obtain for both the
depinning and subthreshold thermally activated creep motion should shed light
on the universal glassy dynamics of thermally fluctuating elastic objects
pinned by disordered energy landscapes." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184434 2016-11-26 2017-02-03 "['Pardo', 'Torres', 'Kolton', 'Bustingorry', 'Jeudy']"
1611.09445 "Infrared Problem in Quantum Acoustodynamics" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.quant-gas quant-ph" "Quantum electrodynamics (QED) provides a highly accurate description of
phenomena involving the interaction of atoms with light. We argue that the
quantum theory describing the interaction of cold atoms with a vibrating
membrane--quantum acoustodynamics (QAD)--shares many issues and features with
QED. Specifically, the adsorption of an atom on a vibrating membrane can be
viewed as the counterpart to QED radiative electron capture. A calculation of
the adsorption rate to lowest-order in the atom-phonon coupling is finite;
however, higher-order contributions suffer from an infrared problem mimicking
the case of radiative capture in QED. Terms in the perturbation series for the
adsorption rate diverge as a result of massless particles in the model
(flexural phonons of the membrane in QAD and photons in QED). We treat this
infrared problem in QAD explicitly to obtain finite results by regularizing
with a low-frequency cutoff that corresponds to the inverse size of the
membrane. Using a coherent state basis for the soft phonon final state, we then
sum the dominant contributions to derive a new formula for the multiphonon
adsorption rate of atoms on the membrane that gives results that are finite,
nonperturbative in the atom-phonon coupling, and consistent with the KLN
theorem. For micromembranes, we predict a reduction with increasing membrane
size for the low-energy adsorption rate. We discuss the relevance of this to
the adsorption of a cold gas of atomic hydrogen on suspended graphene." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052110 2016-11-28 2017-05-25 "['Clougherty', 'Sengupta']"
1611.09467 "Gradient optimization of finite projected entangled pair states" "quant-ph cond-mat.str-el" "The projected entangled pair states (PEPS) methods have been proved to be
powerful tools to solve the strongly correlated quantum many-body problems in
two-dimension. However, due to the high computational scaling with the virtual
bond dimension $D$, in a practical application PEPS are often limited to rather
small bond dimensions, which may not be large enough for some highly entangled
systems, for instance, the frustrated systems. The optimization of the ground
state using time evolution method with simple update scheme may go to a larger
bond dimension. However, the accuracy of the rough approximation to the
environment of the local tensors is questionable. Here, we demonstrate that
combining the time evolution method with simple update, Monte Carlo sampling
techniques and gradient optimization will offer an efficient method to
calculate the PEPS ground state. By taking the advantages of massive parallel
computing, we can study the quantum systems with larger bond dimensions up to
$D$=10 without resorting to any symmetry. Benchmark tests of the method on the
$J_1$-$J_2$ model give impressive accuracy compared with exact results." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195154 2016-11-28 2017-05-03 "['Liu', 'Dong', 'Han', 'Guo', 'He']"
1611.09724 "Thermoelectric transport in junctions of Majorana and Dirac channels" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "We investigate the thermoelectric current and heat conductance in a chiral
Josephson contact on a surface of a 3D topological insulator, covered with
superconducting and magnetic insulator films. The contact consists of two
junctions of Majorana and Dirac channels next to two superconductors. Geometric
asymmetry results in a supercurrent without a phase bias. The interference of
Dirac fermions causes oscillations of the electric and heat currents with an
unconventional period $2\Phi_0=h/e$ as functions of the Aharonov-Bohm flux. Due
to the gapless character of Majorana modes, there is no threshold for the
thermoelectric effect and the current-flux relationship is non-sinusoidal.
Depending on the magnetic flux, the direction of the electric current can be
both from the hot to cold lead and vice versa." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195425 2016-11-29 2017-05-10 "['Shapiro', 'Feldman', 'Mirlin', 'Shnirman']"
1611.10019 "The mixed-state Hall conductivity of single-crystal films
  $Nd_{2-x}Ce_xCuO_{4+\delta}$ (x=0.14)" cond-mat.supr-con "The magnetic-field dependencies of the longitudinal and Hall resistivity of
the electron-doped compounds $Nd_{2-x}Ce_xCuO_{4+\delta}$ in underdoped region
(x=0.14) were investigated. It was established experimentally a strong magnetic
field dependence of the Hall conductivity, $\sigma_{xy}(B)=C-b/B$, in the
region of magnetic fields corresponding to a transition from superconducting to
resistive state. The observed feature can be explained with the sum of
contributions of the quasiparticles and moving Abrikosov vortices into Hall
effect in a mixed state of type-II superconductor." 10.1063/1.4983182 2016-11-30  "['Shelushinina', 'Harus', 'Charikova', 'Petukhov', 'Petukhova', 'Ivanov']"
1611.10036 "Cu-In Halide Perovskite solar absorbers" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The long-term chemical instability and the presence of toxic Pb in otherwise
stellar solar absorber APbX$_{3}$ have hindered their large-scale
commercialization. Previously explored ways to achieve Pb-free halide
perovskites involved replacing Pb$^{2+}$ with other similar M$^{2+}$ cations in
ns$^2$ electron configuration, e.g., Sn$^{2+}$ or by Bi$^{3+}$ (plus Ag$^+$),
but unfortunately this showed either poor stability (M = Sn) or weakly
absorbing oversized indirect gaps (M = Bi), prompting concerns that perhaps
stability and good optoelectronic properties might be contraindicated. Herein,
we exploit the electronic structure underpinning of classic Cu[In,Ga]Se$_{2}$
(CIGS) chalcopyrite solar absorbers to design Pb-free halide perovskites by
transmuting 2Pb to the pair [B$^{IB}$ + C$^{III}$]. The resulting group of
double perovskites with formula A$_2$BCX$_6$ (A = K, Rb, Cs; B = Cu, Ag; C =
Ga, In; X = Cl, Br, I) benefits from the ionic, yet narrow-gap character of
halide perovskites, and at the same time borrows the advantage of the strong
and rapidly rising Cu(d)/Se(p) $\rightarrow$ Ga/In(s/p)
valence-to-conduction-band absorption spectra known from CIGS. This constitutes
a new group of CuIn-based Halide Perovskite (CIHP). Our first-principles
calculations guided by such design principles indicate that the CIHPs class has
members with clear thermodynamic stability, showing rather strong direct-gap
optical transitions, and manifesting a wide-range of tunable gap values (from
zero to about 2.5 eV) and combination of light electron and heavy-light hole
effective masses. Materials screening of candidate CHIPs then identifies the
best-of-class Rb$_2$[CuIn]Cl$_6$, Rb$_2$[AgIn]Br$_6$ and Cs$_2$[AgIn]Br$_6$,
having direct band gaps of 1.36, 1.46 and 1.50 eV, and a theoretical
spectroscopic limited maximal efficiency comparable to chalcopyrites and
CH$_3$NH$_3$PbI$_3$." 10.1021/jacs.7b02120 2016-11-30 2017-05-15 "['Zhao', 'Yang', 'Sun', 'Li', 'Zhang', 'Yu', 'Zunger']"
1612.00082 "On entanglement spreading from holography" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el" "A global quench is an interesting setting where we can study thermalization
of subsystems in a pure state. We investigate entanglement entropy (EE) growth
in global quenches in holographic field theories and relate some of its aspects
to quantities characterizing chaos. More specifically we obtain four key
results:
  1. We prove holographic bounds on the entanglement velocity $v_E$ and the
butterfly effect speed $v_B$ that arises in the study of chaos.
  2. We obtain the EE as a function of time for large spherical entangling
surfaces analytically. We show that the EE is insensitive to the details of the
initial state or quench protocol.
  3. In a thermofield double state we determine analytically the two-sided
mutual information between two large concentric spheres separated in time.
  4. We derive a bound on the rate of growth of EE for arbitrary shapes, and
develop an expansion for EE at early times.
  In a companion paper with Douglas Stanford arXiv:1608.05101, we put these
results in the broader context of EE growth in chaotic systems: we relate EE
growth to the chaotic spreading of operators, derive bounds on EE at a given
time, and compare the holographic results to spin chain numerics and toy
models. In this paper, we perform holographic calculations that provide the
basis of arguments presented in that paper." 10.1007/JHEP05(2017)064 2016-11-30  ['Mezei']
1612.00381 "Using Random Boundary Conditions to simulate disordered quantum spin
  models in 2D-systems" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "Disordered quantum antiferromagnets in two-dimensional compounds have been a
focus of interest in the last years due to their exotic properties. However,
with very few exceptions, the ground states of the corresponding Hamiltonians
are notoriously difficult to simulate making their characterization and
detection very elusive, both, theoretically and experimentally. Here we propose
a method to signal quantum disordered antiferromagnets by doing exact
diagonalization in small lattices using random boundary conditions and
averaging the observables of interest over the different disorder realizations.
We apply our method to study a Heisenberg spin-1/2 model in an anisotropic
triangular lattice. In this model, the competition between frustration and
quantum fluctuations might lead to some spin liquid phases as predicted from
different methods ranging from spin wave mean field theory to 2D-DMRG or PEPS.
Our method accurately reproduces the ordered phases expected of the model and
signals disordered phases by the presence of a large number of quasi degenerate
ground states together with the absence of a local order parameter. The method
presents a weak dependence on finite size effects." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195167 2016-12-01 2016-12-13 "['Yuste', 'Moreno-Cardoner', 'Sanpera']"
1612.00923 "The nuclear contacts and short range correlations in nuclei" "nucl-th cond-mat.quant-gas nucl-ex" "Atomic nuclei are complex strongly interacting systems and their exact
theoretical description is a long-standing challenge. An approximate
description of nuclei can be achieved by separating its short and long range
structure. This separation of scales stands at the heart of the nuclear shell
model and effective field theories that describe the long-range structure of
the nucleus using a mean- field approximation. We present here an effective
description of the complementary short-range structure using contact terms and
stylized two-body asymptotic wave functions. The possibility to extract the
nuclear contacts from experimental data is presented. Regions in the two-body
momentum distribution dominated by high-momentum, close-proximity, nucleon
pairs are identified and compared to experimental data. The amount of
short-range correlated (SRC) nucleon pairs is determined and compared to
measurements. Non-combinatorial isospin symmetry for SRC pairs is identified.
The obtained one-body momentum distributions indicate dominance of SRC pairs
above the nuclear Fermi-momentum."  2016-12-02 2017-05-26 "['Weiss', 'Cruz-Torres', 'Barnea', 'Piasetzky', 'Hen']"
1612.01688 "Symplectic and antiplectic waves in an array of beating cilia attached
  to a closed body" "physics.bio-ph cond-mat.soft physics.flu-dyn" "By taking into account the hydrodynamic interactions in a one dimensional
array of model cilia attached to a no-slip cylinderical surface, we investigate
their synchronized motion. We show, how does the emergence of metachronal waves
depend on the initial state of the system and investigate the conditions under
which, the formation of symplectic and antiplectic waves are possible." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052412 2016-12-06 2017-05-07 "['Ghorbani', 'Najafi']"
1612.01961 "Universality and unconventional enhancement of flux-flow resistivity in
  Ba(Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_x$)$_2$As$_2$" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "Measurements of the current-voltage characteristics were performed on
Ba(Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_x$)$_2$As$_2$ single crystals with doping level $0.044 \leq x
\leq 0.1$. An unconventional increase in the flux-flow resistivity $\rho_{\rm
ff}$ with decreasing magnetic field was observed across this doping range. Such
an abnormal field dependence of flux-flow resistivity is in contrast with the
linear field dependence of $\rho_{\rm ff}$ in conventional type-II
superconductors, but is similar to the behavior recently observed in the
heavy-fermion superconductor CeCoIn$_5$. A significantly enhanced $\rho_{\rm
ff}$ was found for the x=0.06 single crystals, implying a strong
single-particle energy dissipation around the vortex cores. At different
temperatures and fields and for a given doping concentration, the normalized
$\rho_{\rm ff}$ scales with normalized field and temperature. The doping level
dependence of these parameters strongly suggests that the abnormal upturn
flux-flow resisitivity is likely related to the enhancement of spin
fluctuations around the vortex cores of the optimally doped samples." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184513 2016-12-06  "['Huang', 'Haney', 'Singh', 'Hu', 'Xiao', 'Wen', 'Dzero', 'Almasan']"
1612.02409 "Van der Waals interaction between a moving nano-cylinder and a liquid
  thin film" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.soft physics.flu-dyn physics.ins-det" "We study the static and dynamic interaction between a horizontal cylindrical
nano-probe and a thin liquid film. The effects of the physical and geometrical
parameters, with a special focus on the film thickness, the probe speed, and
the distance between the probe and the free surface are analyzed. Deformation
profiles have been computed numerically from a Reynolds lubrication equation,
coupled to a modified Young-Laplace equation, which takes into account the
probe/liquid and the liquid/substrate non-retarded van der Waals interactions.
We have found that the film thickness and the probe speed have a significant
effect on the threshold separation distance below which the jump-to-contact
instability is triggered. These results encourage the use of horizontal
cylindrical nano-probes to scan thin liquid films, in order to determine either
the physical or geometrical properties of the latter, through the measurement
of interaction forces."  2016-12-07  "['Ledesma-Alonso', 'Raphaël', 'Salez', 'Tordjeman', 'Legendre']"
1612.02434 "Scrambling and thermalization in a diffusive quantum many-body system" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech hep-th quant-ph" "Out-of-time ordered (OTO) correlation functions describe scrambling of
information in correlated quantum matter. They are of particular interest in
incoherent quantum systems lacking well defined quasi-particles. Thus far, it
is largely elusive how OTO correlators spread in incoherent systems with
diffusive transport governed by a few globally conserved quantities. Here, we
study the dynamical response of such a system using high-performance
matrix-product-operator techniques. Specifically, we consider the
non-integrable, one-dimensional Bose-Hubbard model in the incoherent
high-temperature regime. Our system exhibits diffusive dynamics in time-ordered
correlators of globally conserved quantities, whereas OTO correlators display a
ballistic, light-cone spreading of quantum information. The slowest process in
the global thermalization of the system is thus diffusive, yet information
spreading is not inhibited by such slow dynamics. We furthermore develop an
experimentally feasible protocol to overcome some challenges faced by existing
proposals and to probe time-ordered and OTO correlation functions. Our study
opens new avenues for both the theoretical and experimental exploration of
thermalization and information scrambling dynamics." 10.1088/1367-2630/aa719b 2016-12-07 2017-02-17 "['Bohrdt', 'Mendl', 'Endres', 'Knap']"
1612.02514 "Thermal conductivity measurements of PTFE and Al$_2$O$_3$ ceramic at
  sub-Kelvin temperatures" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci nucl-ex physics.ins-det" "The design of low temperature bolometric detectors for rare event searches
necessitates careful selection and characterization of structural materials
based on their thermal properties. We measure the thermal conductivities of
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) and Al$_2$O$_3$ ceramic (alumina) in the
temperature ranges of 0.17-0.43 K and 0.1-1.3 K, respectively. For the former,
we observe a quadratic temperature dependence across the entire measured range.
For the latter, we see a cubic dependence on temperature above ~0.3 K, with a
linear contribution below that temperature. This paper presents our measurement
techniques, results, and theoretical discussions. Keywords: Thermal
Conductivity, PTFE, Al$_2$O$_3$ ceramic, Bolometer" 10.1016/j.cryogenics.2017.05.008 2016-12-07 2017-05-30 "['Drobizhev', 'Reiten', 'Singh', 'Kolomensky']"
1612.02515 "Damped spin-wave excitations in the itinerant antiferromagnet
  $\gamma$-Fe$_{0.7}$Mn$_{0.3}$" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.str-el" "The collective spin-wave excitations in the antiferromagnetic state of
$\gamma$-Fe$_{0.7}$Mn$_{0.3}$ were investigated using the inelastic neutron
scattering technique. The spin excitations remain isotropic up to the high
excitation energy, ${\hbar\omega}= 78$ meV. The excitations gradually become
broad and damped above 40 meV. The damping parameter ${\gamma}$ reaches 110(16)
meV at ${\hbar\omega} = 78$ meV, which is much larger than that for other
metallic compounds, e.g., CaFe$_2$As$_2$ (24 meV),
La$_{2-2x}$Sr$_{1+2x}$Mn$_2$O$_7$ ($52-72$ meV), and Mn$_{90}$Cu$_{10}$ (88
meV). In addition, the spin-wave dispersion shows a deviation from the relation
$({\hbar\omega})^2 = c^2q^2 + {\Delta}^2$ above 40 meV. The group velocity
above this energy increases to 470(40) meV{\AA}, which is higher than that at
the low energies, $c = 226(5)$ meV{\AA}. These results could suggest that the
spin-wave excitations merge with the continuum of the individual particle-hole
excitations at 40 meV." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224406 2016-12-07 2017-05-16 "['Ibuka', 'Itoh', 'Yokoo', 'Endoh']"
1612.02807 "Random versus maximum entropy models of neural population activity" "q-bio.NC cond-mat.dis-nn" "The principle of maximum entropy provides a useful method for inferring
statistical mechanics models from observations in correlated systems, and is
widely used in a variety of fields where accurate data are available. While the
assumptions underlying maximum entropy are intuitive and appealing, its
adequacy for describing complex empirical data has been little studied in
comparison to alternative approaches. Here data from the collective spiking
activity of retinal neurons is reanalysed. The accuracy of the maximum entropy
distribution constrained by mean firing rates and pairwise correlations is
compared to a random ensemble of distributions constrained by the same
observables. In general, maximum entropy approximates the true distribution
better than the typical or mean distribution from that ensemble. This advantage
improves with population size, with groups as small as 8 being almost always
better described by maximum entropy. Failure of maximum entropy to outperform
random models is found to be associated with strong correlations in the
population." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.042321 2016-12-08  "['Ferrari', 'Obuchi', 'Mora']"
1612.02837 "Full counting statistics of time of flight images" cond-mat.quant-gas "Inspired by recent advances in cold atomic systems and non-equilibrium
physics, we introduce a novel characterization scheme, the time of flight full
counting statistics. We benchmark this method on an interacting one dimensional
Bose gas, and show that there the time of flight image displays several
universal regimes. Finite momentum fluctuations are observed at larger
distances, where a crossover from exponential to Gamma distribution occurs upon
decreasing momentum resolution. Zero momentum particles, on the other hand,
obey a Gumbel distribution, characterizing the quantum fluctuations of the
former quasi-condensate. Time of flight full counting statistics is
demonstrated to capture thermalization processes after a quantum quench, and
can be useful for characterizing exotic quantum states such as many-body
localized systems or models of holography." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053621 2016-12-08  "['Lovas', 'Dóra', 'Demler', 'Zaránd']"
1612.03036 "Quantum Nonlinear Optics with a Germanium-Vacancy Color Center in a
  Nanoscale Diamond Waveguide" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "We demonstrate a quantum nanophotonics platform based on germanium-vacancy
(GeV) color centers in fiber-coupled diamond nanophotonic waveguides. We show
that GeV optical transitions have a high quantum efficiency and are nearly
lifetime-broadened in such nanophotonic structures. These properties yield an
efficient interface between waveguide photons and a single GeV without the use
of a cavity or slow-light waveguide. As a result, a single GeV center reduces
waveguide transmission by $18 \pm 1\%$ on resonance in a single pass. We use a
nanophotonic interferometer to perform homodyne detection of GeV resonance
fluorescence. By probing the photon statistics of the output field, we
demonstrate that the GeV-waveguide system is nonlinear at the single-photon
level." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.223603 2016-12-09 2017-05-31 "['Bhaskar', 'Sukachev', 'Sipahigil', 'Evans', 'Burek', 'Nguyen', 'Rogers', 'Siyushev', 'Metsch', 'Park', 'Jelezko', 'Lončar', 'Lukin']"
1612.03039 "Computer simulation study of the nematic-vapour interface in the
  Gay-Berne model" cond-mat.soft "We present computer simulations of the vapour-nematic interface of the
Gay-Berne model. We considered situations which correspond to either prolate or
oblate molecules. We determine the anchoring of the nematic phase and correlate
it with the intermolecular potential parameters. On the other hand, we evaluate
the surface tension associated to this interface. We find a corresponding
states law for the surface tension dependence on the temperature, valid for
both prolate and oblate molecules." 10.1080/00268976.2016.1274437 2016-12-09  "['Rull', 'Romero-Enrique']"
1612.03356 "The Majorana STM as a perfect detector of odd-frequency
  superconductivity" cond-mat.supr-con "We propose a novel scanning tunneling microscope (STM) device in which the
tunneling tip is formed by a Majorana bound state (MBS). This peculiar bound
state exists at the boundary of a one-dimensional topological superconductor.
Since the MBS has to be effectively spinless and local, we argue that it is the
smallest unit that shows itself odd-frequency superconducting pairing.
Odd-frequency superconductivity is characterized by an anomalous Green function
which is an odd function of the time arguments of the two electrons forming the
Cooper pair. Interestingly, our Majorana STM can be used as the perfect
detector of odd-frequency superconductivity. The reason is that a supercurrent
between the Majorana STM and any other superconductor can only flow if the
latter system exhibits itself odd-frequency pairing. To illustrate our general
idea, we consider the tunneling problem of the Majorana STM coupled to a
quantum dot in vicinity to a conventional superconductor. In such a
(superconducting) quantum dot, the effective pairing can be tuned from even- to
odd-frequency behavior if an external magnetic field is applied to it." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174516 2016-12-10  "['Kashuba', 'Sothmann', 'Burset', 'Trauzettel']"
1612.03525 "Photoelastic force measurements in granular materials" cond-mat.soft "Photoelastic techniques are used to make both qualitative and quantitative
measurements of the forces within idealized granular materials. The method is
based on placing a birefringent granular material between a pair of polarizing
filters, so that each region of the material rotates the polarization of light
according to the amount of local of stress. In this review paper, we summarize
past work using the technique, describe the optics underlying the technique,
and illustrate how it can be used to quantitatively determine the vector
contact forces between particles in a 2D granular system. We provide a
description of software resources available to perform this task, as well as
key techniques and resources for building an experimental apparatus." 10.1063/1.4983049 2016-12-11  "['Daniels', 'Kollmer', 'Puckett']"
1612.03575 "Nonadiabatic holonomic quantum computation with dressed-state qubits" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "Implementing holonomic quantum computation is a challenging task as it
requires complicated interaction among multilevel systems. Here we propose to
implement nonadiabatic holonomic quantum computation based on dressed-state
qubits in circuit QED. An arbitrary holonomic single-qubit gate can be
conveniently achieved using external microwave fields and tuning their
amplitudes and phases. Meanwhile, nontrivial two-qubit gates can be implemented
in a coupled-cavities scenario assisted by a grounding SQUID with tunable
interaction, where the tuning is achieved by modulating the ac flux threaded
through the SQUID. In addition, our proposal is directly scalable, up to a
two-dimensional lattice configuration. In the present scheme, the dressed
states involve only the lowest two levels of each transmon qubit and the
effective interactions exploited are all of resonant nature. Therefore, we
release the main difficulties for physical implementation of holonomic quantum
computation on superconducting circuits." 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.7.054022 2016-12-12 2017-05-24 "['Xue', 'Gu', 'Hong', 'Yang', 'Zhang', 'Hu', 'You']"
1612.03851 "A Supersymmetric SYK-like Tensor Model" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el" "We consider a supersymmetric SYK-like model without quenched disorder that is
built by coupling two kinds of fermionic N=1 tensor-valued superfields,
""quarks"" and ""mesons"". We prove that the model has a well-defined large-N limit
in which the (s)quark 2-point functions are dominated by mesonic ""melon""
diagrams. We sum these diagrams to obtain the Schwinger-Dyson equations and
show that in the IR, the solution agrees with that of the supersymmetric SYK
model." 10.1007/JHEP05(2017)062 2016-12-12 2017-04-28 "['Peng', 'Spradlin', 'Volovich']"
1612.03951 "Majorana Landau Level Raman Spectroscopy" cond-mat.str-el "The unambiguous experimental detection of quantum spin liquids and, in
particular, of the long-sought Kitaev quantum spin liquid (KQSL) with its
Majorana fermion excitations remains an outstanding challenge. One of the major
obstacles is the absence of signatures that definitively characterize this
phase. Here we propose the Landau levels known to form in the Majorana
excitation spectrum of the KQSL when certain strain fields are applied as a
direct signature of Majorana fermions with Dirac-like dispersion. In
particular, we show that the Majorana Landau level quantization of strained
films of the KQSL can be directly probed by Raman spectroscopy. Such
experiments are feasible in thin films of $\alpha$-RuCl$_3$, which are a
promising place to search for the KQSL." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184429 2016-12-12  "['Perreault', 'Rachel', 'Burnell', 'Knolle']"
1612.04116 "Interplay of the inverse proximity effect and magnetic field in
  out-of-equilibrium single-electron devices" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "The magnetic field is shown to affect significantly non-equilibrium
quasiparticle (QP) distributions under conditions of inverse proximity effect
on the remarkable example of a single-electron hybrid turnstile. This effect
suppresses the gap in the superconducting leads in the vicinity of turnstile
junctions with a Coulomb blockaded island, thus, trapping hot QPs in this
region. Applied magnetic field creates additional QP traps in the form of
vortices or regions with reduced superconducting gap in the leads resulting in
release of QPs away from junctions. We present clear experimental evidence of
such interplay of the inverse proximity effect and a magnetic field revealing
itself in the superconducting gap enhancement in a magnetic field as well as in
significant improvement of the turnstile characteristics. The observed
interplay of the inverse proximity effect and external magnetic field, and its
theoretical explanation in the context of QP overheating are important for
various superconducting and hybrid nanoelectronic devices, which find
applications in quantum computation, photon detection and quantum metrology." 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.7.054021 2016-12-13  "['Nakamura', 'Pashkin', 'Taupin', 'Maisi', 'Khaymovich', ""Mel'nikov"", 'Peltonen', 'Pekola', 'Okazaki', 'Kashiwaya', 'Kawabata', 'Vasenko', 'Tsai', 'Kaneko']"
1612.04181 "Pattern of confined chemical garden controlled by injection speed" "nlin.AO cond-mat.soft physics.bio-ph" "Pattern of confined chemical garden was controlled by the speed of injected
fluid, and their mechanism is discussed. A confined chemical garden system was
constructed where an aqueous solution of cobalt chloride was injected into a
cell filled with sodium silicate solution. The reaction of these two solutions
resulted in the formation of precipitation. The viscosities of the prepared
aqueous solutions were set to be similar in order to rule out the possibility
of Saffman-Taylor instability. The injection front showed three distinctive
patterns: algaes, shells, and filaments, which were dependent on injection
speed. The injection pressure and the spatio-temporal pattern of the injected
fluid were measured, and a significant increase in the injection pressure was
observed when the filament pattern appeared, which indicated the existence of
thin lubrication layer between the precipitation and the substrate. The
filament pattern was further analyzed quantitatively, and the number of active
filaments was determined to be proportional to the injection speed. A
mathematical model was constructed that considered both the viscous effect from
the thin luburiation layer and the Laplace pressure. This model successfully
reproduced the characteristic filament dynamics." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052220 2016-12-09 2017-05-06 "['Wagatsuma', 'Higashi', 'Achiwa', 'Sumino']"
1612.04427 "Generating indistinguishable photons from a quantum dot in a noisy
  environment" cond-mat.mes-hall "Single photons from semiconductor quantum dots are promising resources for
linear optical quantum computing, or, when coupled to spin states, quantum
repeaters. To realize such schemes, the photons must exhibit a high degree of
indistinguishability. However, the solid-state environment presents inherent
obstacles for this requirement as intrinsic semiconductor fluctuations can
destroy the photon indistinguishability. Here we use resonance fluorescence to
generate indistinguishable photons from a single quantum dot in an environment
filled with many charge-fluctuating traps. Over long time-scales ($>50$
$\mu$s), flickering of the emission due to significant spectral fluctuations
reduce the count rates. Nevertheless, due to the specificity of resonance
fluorescence, high-visibility two-photon interference is achieved." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201410 2016-12-13  "['Santana', 'Ma', 'Malein', 'Bastiman', 'Clarke', 'Gerardot']"
1612.04545 "Universal description of channel plasmons in two-dimensional materials" "physics.optics cond-mat.mes-hall" "Channeling surface plasmon-polaritons to control their propagation direction
is of the utmost importance for future optoelectronic devices. Here, we develop
an effective-index method to describe and characterize the properties of 2D
material's channel plasmon-polaritons (CPPs) guided along a V-shaped channel.
Focusing on the case of graphene, we derive a universal Schr\""odinger-like
equation from which one can determine the dispersion relation of graphene CPPs
and corresponding field distributions at any given frequency, since they depend
on the geometry of the structure alone. The results are then compared against
more rigorous theories, having obtained a very good agreement. Our calculations
show that CPPs in graphene and other 2D materials are attractive candidates to
achieve deep subwavelength waveguiding of light, holding potential as active
components for the next generation of tunable photonic devices." 10.1364/OPTICA.4.000595 2016-12-14 2017-05-30 "['Gonçalves', 'Bozhevolnyi', 'Mortensen', 'Peres']"
1612.04867 "Roughness-induced domain structure in perpendicular Co/Ni multilayers" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We investigate the correlation between roughness, remanence and coercivity in
Co/Ni films grown on Cu seed layers of varying thickness. Increasing the Cu
seed layer thickness of Ta/Cu/8x[Co/Ni] thin films increases the roughness of
the films. In-plane magnetization loops show that both the remanance and
coercivity increase with increasing seed layer roughness. Polar Kerr microscopy
and magnetic force microscopy reveal that the domain density also increases
with roughness. Finite element micromagnetic simulations performed on
structures with periodically modulated surfaces provide further insight. They
confirm the connection between domain density and roughness, and identify the
microsocpic structure of the domain walls as the source of the increased
remanence in rough films. The simulations predict that the character of the
domain walls changes from Bloch-like in smooth films to N\'eel-like for rougher
films." 10.1016/j.jmmm.2017.05.051 2016-12-14 2017-05-29 "['Lee-Hone', 'Thanhoffer', 'Neu', 'Schäfer', 'Arora', 'Hübner', 'Suess', 'Broun', 'Girt']"
1612.04989 "Electronic correlation effects and Coulomb gap in the
  Si(111)-$(\sqrt{3}\times\sqrt{3})$-Sn surface" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall" "Electronic transport properties of the Si(111)-$(\sqrt{3}\times\sqrt{3})$-Sn
surface formed on low doped Si substrates are studied using two-probe
conductivity measurements and tunnelling spectroscopy. We demonstrate that the
ground state corresponds to Mott-Hubbard insulator with a band gap $2\Delta =
70$meV, which vanishes quickly upon temperature increase. The temperature
dependence of the surface conductivity above $T > 50$K corresponds to the
Efros-Shklovskii hopping conduction law. The energy gap at the Fermi level
observed in tunnelling spectroscopy measurements at higher temperatures could
be described in terms of dynamic Coulomb blockade approximation. The obtained
localization length of electron is $\xi = 7$\AA." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195151 2016-12-15  "['Odobescu', 'Maizlakh', 'Fedotov', 'Zaitsev-Zotov']"
1612.05238 "Schrodinger's catapult: Launching multiphoton quantum states from a
  microwave cavity memory" "quant-ph cond-mat.supr-con" "Encoding quantum states in complex multiphoton fields can overcome loss
during signal transmission in a quantum network. Transmitting quantum
information encoded in this way requires that locally stored states can be
converted to propagating fields. Here we experimentally show the controlled
conversion of multiphoton quantum states, like ""Schr\""odinger cat"" states, from
a microwave cavity quantum memory into propagating modes. By parametric
conversion using the nonlinearity of a single Josephson junction, we can
release the cavity state in ~500 ns, about 3 orders of magnitude faster than
its intrinsic lifetime. This `catapult' faithfully converts arbitrary cavity
fields to traveling signals with an estimated efficiency of > 90%, enabling
on-demand generation of complex itinerant quantum states. Importantly, the
release process can be controlled precisely on fast time scales, allowing us to
generate entanglement between the cavity and the traveling mode by partial
conversion. Our system can serve as the backbone of a microwave quantum
network, paving the way towards error-correctable distribution of quantum
information and the transfer of highly non-classical states to hybrid quantum
systems." 10.1038/nphys4143 2016-12-15  "['Pfaff', 'Axline', 'Burkhart', 'Vool', 'Reinhold', 'Frunzio', 'Jiang', 'Devoret', 'Schoelkopf']"
1612.05358 "Quantum Monte Carlo Study on the Spin-1/2 Honeycomb Heisenberg Model
  with Mixing Antiferromagnetic and Ferromagnetic Interactions in External
  Magnetic Fields" "cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "The continuous imaginary-time quantum Monte Carlo method with the worm update
algorithm is applied to explore the ground state properties of the spin-1/2
Heisenberg model with antiferromagnetic (AF) coupling $J>0$ and ferromagnetic
(F) coupling $J^{\prime}<0$ along zigzag and armchair directions, respectively,
on honeycomb lattice. It is found that by enhancing the F coupling $J^{\prime}$
between zigzag AF chains, the system is smoothly crossover from one-dimensional
zigzag spin chains to a two-dimensional magnetic ordered state. In absence of
an external field, the system is in a stripe order phase. In presence of
uniform and staggered fields, the uniform and staggered out-of-plane
magnetizations appear while the stripe order keeps in $xy$ plane, and a
second-order quantum phase transition (QPT) at a critical staggered field is
observed. The critical exponents of correlation length for QPTs induced by a
staggered field for the cases with $J>0$, $J^{\prime}<0$ and $J<0$,
$J^{\prime}>0$ are obtained to be $\nu=0.677(2)$ and $0.693(0)$, respectively,
indicating that both cases belong to O(3) universality. The scaling behavior in
a staggered field is analyzed, and the ground state phase diagrams in the plane
of coupling ratio and staggered field are presented for two cases. The
temperature dependence of susceptibility and specific heat of both systems in
external magnetic fields is also discussed." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052147 2016-12-15  "['Huang', 'Su']"
1612.05732 "Bi-stability resistant to fluctuations" "physics.bio-ph cond-mat.stat-mech" "We study a simple micro-mechanical device that does not lose its snap-through
behavior in an environment dominated by fluctuations. The main idea is to have
several degrees of freedom that can cooperatively resist the de-synchronizing
effect of random perturbations. As an inspiration we use the power stroke
machinery of skeletal muscles, which ensures at sub-micron scales and finite
temperatures a swift recovery of an abruptly applied slack. In addition to
hypersensitive response at finite temperatures, our prototypical Brownian snap
spring also exhibits criticality at special values of parameters which is
another potentially interesting property for micro-scale engineering
applications."  2016-12-17 2017-06-06 "['Caruel', 'Truskinovsky']"
1612.05809 "Physics of Hollow Bose-Einstein Condensate Systems" cond-mat.quant-gas "Bose-Einstein condensate shells, while occurring in ultracold systems of
coexisting phases and potentially within neutron stars, have yet to be realized
in isolation on Earth due to the experimental challenge of overcoming
gravitational sag. Motivated by the expected realization of hollow condensates
by the space-based Cold Atomic Laboratory in microgravity conditions, we study
a spherical condensate undergoing a topological change from a filled sphere to
a hollow shell. We argue that the collective modes of the system show marked
and robust signatures of this hollowing transition. In particular, the
frequency spectrum of the transverse (""breathing""-type) modes show a pronounced
depression when the center of the system becomes hollow, while surface modes
show a wholesale restructuring due to the availability of a new (inner)
surface."  2016-12-17 2017-06-05 "['Padavić', 'Sun', 'Lannert', 'Vishveshwara']"
1612.05853 "Higher (Odd) Dimensional Quantum Hall Effect and Extended Dimensional
  Hierarchy" "hep-th cond-mat.mes-hall" "We demonstrate dimensional ladder of higher dimensional quantum Hall effects
by exploiting quantum Hall effects on arbitrary odd dimensional spheres.
Non-relativistic and relativistic Landau models are analyzed on $S^{2k-1}$ in
the $SO(2k-1)$ monopole background. The total sub-band degeneracy of the odd
dimensional lowest Landau level is shown to be equal to the winding number from
the base-manifold $S^{2k-1}$ to the one-dimension higher $SO(2k)$ gauge group.
Based on the chiral Hopf maps, we clarify the underlying quantum Nambu geometry
for odd dimensional quantum Hall effect and the resulting quantum geometry is
naturally embedded also in one-dimension higher quantum geometry. An origin of
such dimensional ladder connecting even and odd dimensional quantum Hall
effects is illuminated from a viewpoint of the spectral flow of
Atiyah-Patodi-Singer index theorem in differential topology. We also present a
BF topological field theory as an effective field theory in which membranes
with different dimensions undergo non-trivial linking in odd dimensional space.
Finally, an extended version of the dimensional hierarchy for higher
dimensional quantum Hall liquids is proposed, and its relationship to quantum
anomaly and D-brane physics is discussed." 10.1016/j.nuclphysb.2017.03.017 2016-12-17 2017-05-18 ['Hasebe']
1612.06487 "Resonant Scattering and Microscopic Model of Spinless Fermi Gases in
  One-dimensional Optical Lattices" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study the effective Bloch-wave scattering of a spinless Fermi gas in
one-dimensional (1D) optical lattices. By tuning the odd-wave scattering
length, we find multiple resonances of Bloch-waves scattering at the bottom
(and the top) of the lowest band, beyond which an attractive (and a repulsive)
two-body bound state starts to emerge. These resonances exhibit comparable
widths in the deep lattice limit, and the finite interaction range plays an
essential role in determining their locations. Based on the exact two-body
solutions, we construct an effective microscopic model for the low-energy
scattering of fermions. The model can reproduce not only the scattering
amplitudes of Bloch-waves at the lowest band bottom/top, but also the
attractive/repulsive bound states within a reasonably large energy range
below/above the band. These results lay the foundation for quantum simulating
topological states in cold Fermi gases confined in 1D optical lattices." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.041601 2016-12-19 2017-03-21 ['Cui']
1612.06607 "First Order Transition in Two Dimensional Coulomb Glass" cond-mat.dis-nn "We have studied the ground states of two dimensional lattice model of Coulomb
Glass via Monte Carlo annealing. Our results show a possibility of existence of
a critical disorder (Wc) below which the system is in the charge ordered phase
and above it the system is in the disordered phase. We have used finite size
scaling to calculate Wc = 0.2413, the critical exponent of magnetization
{\beta} = 0 indicating discontinuity in magnetization and the critical exponent
of correlation length {\nu} = 1.0. The distribution of staggered magnetization
for different disorder strengths shows a three peak structure. We thus predict
that two dimensional Coulomb Glass shows a first order transition at T=0." 10.1088/1742-6596/814/1/012005 2016-12-20 2017-01-02 "['Bhandari', 'Malik']"
1612.06622 "Eigenmodes of Neel skyrmions in ultrathin magnetic films" cond-mat.mes-hall "The static and dynamic states of N\'eel skyrmions in ultrathin ferromagnetic
films with interfacial Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction (DMI) have been
micromagnetically simulated as functions of the interfacial DMI strength and
applied static magnetic field. Findings reveal that while the breathing,
counterclockwise (CCW) and clockwise (CW) rotational eigenmodes exist in the
skyrmion lattice (SkL) phase, only the first two modes are present in the
isolated skyrmion (ISk) phase. Additionally, the eigenfrequency of the CCW mode
is insensitive to the magnetic-field driven SkL-ISk phase transition, and the
inter-skyrmion interaction is largely responsible for exciting the CW mode in
the SkL phase. The findings provide physical insight into the dynamics of the
phase transition and would be of use to potential skyrmion-based microwave
applications." 10.1063/1.4983806 2016-12-20 2017-04-28 "['Zhang', 'Hou', 'Di', 'Lim', 'Ng', 'Pollard', 'Yang', 'Kuok']"
1612.06639 "Analyzing X-Ray tomographies of granular packings" "physics.data-an cond-mat.soft" "Starting from three-dimensional volume data of a granular packing, as e.g.
obtained by X-ray Computed Tomography, we discuss methods to first detect the
individual particles in the sample and then analyze their properties. This
analysis includes the pair correlation function, the volume and shape of the
Voronoi cells and the number and type of contacts formed between individual
particles. We mainly focus on packings of monodisperse spheres, but we will
also comment on other monoschematic particles such as ellipsoids and
tetrahedra. This paper is accompanied by a package of free software containing
all programs (including source code) and an example three-dimensional dataset
which allows the reader to reproduce and modify all examples given." 10.1063/1.4983051 2016-12-20 2017-03-20 "['Weis', 'Schröter']"
1612.06682 "Laughlin-like states in bosonic and fermionic atomic synthetic ladders" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "The combination of interactions and static gauge fields plays a pivotal role
in our understanding of strongly-correlated quantum matter. Cold atomic gases
endowed with a synthetic dimension are emerging as an ideal platform to
experimentally address this interplay in quasi-one-dimensional systems. A
fundamental question is whether these setups can give access to pristine
two-dimensional phenomena, such as the fractional quantum Hall effect, and how.
We show that unambiguous signatures of bosonic and fermionic Laughlin-like
states can be observed and characterized in synthetic ladders. We theoretically
diagnose these Laughlin-like states focusing on the chiral current flowing in
the ladder, on the central charge of the low-energy theory, and on the
properties of the entanglement entropy. Remarkably, Laughlin-like states are
separated from conventional liquids by Lifschitz-type transitions,
characterized by sharp discontinuities in the current profiles, which we
address using extensive simulations based on matrix-product states. Our work
provides a qualitative and quantitative guideline towards the observability and
understanding of strongly-correlated states of matter in synthetic ladders. In
particular, we unveil how state-of-the-art experimental settings constitute an
ideal starting point to progressively tackle two-dimensional strongly
interacting systems from a ladder viewpoint, opening a new perspective for the
observation of non-Abelian states of matter." 10.1103/PhysRevX.7.021033 2016-12-20 2017-06-04 "['Strinati', 'Cornfeld', 'Rossini', 'Barbarino', 'Dalmonte', 'Fazio', 'Sela', 'Mazza']"
1612.06709 "From spectral fluctuations to acoustic response of a soft interface
  using the second law" "cond-mat.soft physics.bio-ph q-bio.SC" "Physical and chemical changes in biological interfaces can be quantified by
corresponding changes in the thermodynamic state of the interface. Based on
Einsteins approach to thermodynamics, we show that fluorescence spectra of a
dye embedded in a lipid membrane is a function of the state of the interface.
We derive the coupling between the energy fluctuations of a fluorophore and its
environment allowing the thermodynamic susceptibility, in particular, the
specific heat of the interface to be estimated from the spectra of the embedded
fluorophore. The estimate of the thermodynamic susceptibility is shown to hold
not only for quasi-static near-equilibrium measurements, but also for dynamic
state changes in lipid vesicles induced by broadband pressure impulses of the
order of 1 MPa peak amplitude and 10 microsecond pulse duration. These
experiments also provide crucial insights into how dynamic state changes may
affect biological function, for example, during an action potential or during
therapeutic use of acoustic impulses in the form of ultrasound or shock waves."  2016-12-20 2017-06-01 "['Shrivastava', 'Cleveland', 'Schneider']"
1612.06776 "Magnetism of PrFeAsO parent compound for iron-based superconductors:
  M\""ossbauer spectroscopy study" cond-mat.str-el "Moessbauer spectroscopy measurements were performed for the temperature range
between 4.2 K and 300 K in a transmission geometry applying 14.41-keV resonant
line in 57Fe for PrFeAsO the latter being a parent compound of the iron-based
superconductors belonging to the '1111' family. It was found that an itinerant
3d magnetic order develops at about 165 K and it is accompanied by an
orthorhombic distortion of the chemical unit cell. A complete longitudinal 3d
incommensurate spin density wave (SDW) order develops at about 140 K.
Transferred hyperfine magnetic field generated by the praseodymium magnetic
order on iron nuclei is seen at 12.8 K and below, i.e., below magnetic order of
praseodymium magnetic moments. It is oriented perpendicular to the field of SDW
on iron nuclei. The shape of SDW is almost rectangular at low temperatures and
it transforms into roughly triangular form around 'nematic' transition at about
140 K. Praseodymium magnetic order leads to the substantial enhancement of SDW
due to the large orbital contribution to the magnetic moment of praseodymium. A
transferred field indicates presence of strong magnetic susceptibility
anisotropy in the [b-c] plane while following rotation of praseodymium magnetic
moments in this plane with lowering temperature. It was found that 'nematic'
phase region is a region of incoherent spin density wavelets typical for a
critical region." 10.1016/j.jallcom.2017.05.049 2016-12-20 2017-05-27 "['Komedera', 'Pierzga', 'Blachowski', 'Ruebenbauer', 'Budziak', 'Katrych', 'Karpinski']"
1612.06908 "Floquet-Band Engineering of Shaken Bosonic Condensates" cond-mat.quant-gas "Optical control and manipulation of cold atoms has become an important topic
in condensed matter. Widely employed are optical lattice shaking experiments
which allow the introduction of artificial gauge fields, the design of
topological bandstructures, and more general probing of quantum critical
phenomena. Here we develop new numerical methods to simulate these periodically
driven systems by implementing lattice shaking directly. As a result we avoid
the usual assumptions associated with a simplified picture based on Floquet
dynamics. A demonstrable success of our approach is that it yields quantitative
agreement with experiment, including Kibble-Zurek scaling. Importantly, we
argue that because their dynamics corresponds to an effective non-linear
Schr\""{o}dinger equation, these particular superfluid studies present a unique
opportunity to address how general Floquet band engineering is affected by
interactions. In particular, interactions cause instabilities at which the
behavior of the system changes dramatically." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.220401 2016-12-20  "['Anderson', 'Clark', 'Crawford', 'Glatz', 'Aronson', 'Scherpelz', 'Feng', 'Chin', 'Levin']"
1612.07068 "Investigating Anomalous Thermal Expansion of Copper Halides by Inelastic
  Neutron Scattering and Ab-inito Phonon Calculations" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We investigate detailed lattice dynamics of copper halides CuX (X=Cl, Br, I)
using neutron inelastic scattering measurements and ab-initio calculations
aimed at a comparative study of their thermal expansion behavior. We identify
the low energy phonons which soften with pressure and are responsible for
negative thermal expansion. The eigenvector analysis of these modes suggests
that softening of the transverse-acoustic modes would lead to NTE in these
compounds. The calculations are in very good agreement with our measurements of
phonon spectra and thermal expansion behavior as reported in the literature.
Our calculations at high pressure further reveal that large difference in
negative thermal expansion behavior in these compounds is associated with the
difference of the unit cell volume." 10.1039/C7CP01517H 2016-12-21  "['Gopakumar', 'Gupta', 'Mittal', 'Rols', 'Chaplot']"
1612.07338 "Currents and fluctuations of quantum heat transport in harmonic chains" cond-mat.stat-mech "Heat transport in open quantum systems is particularly susceptible to the
modeling of system-reservoir interactions. It thus requires to consistently
treat the coupling between a quantum system and its environment. While
perturbative approaches are successfully used in fields like quantum optics and
quantum information, they reveal deficiencies, typically in the context of
thermodynamics, when it is essential to respect additional criteria such as
fluctuation-dissipation theorems. We use a non-perturbative approach for
quantum dissipative dynamics based on a stochastic Liouville-von Neumann
equation to provide a very general and extremely efficient formalism for heat
currents and its correlations in open harmonic chains. Specific results are
derived not only for first but also for second order moments which requires to
account for both real and imaginary parts of bath-bath correlation functions.
Spatiotemporal patterns are compared with weak coupling calculations. The
regime of stronger system-reservoir couplings gives rise to an intimate
interplay between reservoir fluctuations and heat transfer far from
equilibrium." 10.1088/1367-2630/aa68bd 2016-12-21 2017-05-17 "['Motz', 'Ankerhold', 'Stockburger']"
1612.07480 "Quasilinear quantum magnetoresistance in pressure-induced nonsymmorphic
  superconductor CrAs" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.str-el" "In conventional metals, modification of electron trajectories under magnetic
field gives rise to a magnetoresistance that varies quadratically at low field,
followed by a saturation at high field for closed orbits on the Fermi surface.
Deviations from the conventional behaviour, e.g. the observation of a linear
magnetoresistance, or a non-saturating magnetoresistance, have been attributed
to exotic electron scattering mechanisms. Recently, linear magnetoresistance
has been observed in many Dirac materials, in which the electron-electron
correlation is relatively weak. The strongly correlated helimagnet CrAs
undergoes a quantum phase transition to a nonmagnetic superconductor under
pressure. Near the magnetic instability, we observe a large and non-saturating
quasilinear magnetoresistance from the upper critical field to 14 T at low
temperatures. We show that the quasilinear magnetoresistance arises from an
intricate interplay between a nontrivial band crossing protected by
nonsymmorphic crystal symmetry and strong magnetic fluctuations" 10.1038/ncomms15358 2016-12-22  "['Niu', 'Yu', 'Yip', 'Lim', 'Kotegawa', 'Matsuoka', 'Sugawara', 'Tou', 'Yanase', 'Goh']"
1612.07643 "Non-equilibrium transport through a disordered molecular nanowire" cond-mat.mes-hall "We investigate the non-equilibrium transport properties of a disordered
molecular nanowire. The nanowire is regarded as a quasi-one-dimensional organic
crystal composed of self-assembled molecules. One orbital and a single random
energy are assigned to each molecule while the intermolecular coupling does not
fluctuate. Consequently, electronic states are expected to be spatially
localized. We consider the regime of strong localization, namely, the
localization length is smaller than the length of the molecular wire.
Electron-vibron interaction, taking place in each single molecule, is also
taken into account. We investigate the interplay between disorder and
electron-vibron interaction in response to either an applied electric bias or a
temperature gradient. To this end, we calculate the electric and heat currents
when the nanowire is connected to leads, using the Keldysh non-equilibrium
Green's function formalism. At intermediate temperature, scattering by disorder
dominates both charge and heat transport. We find that the electron-vibron
interaction enhances the effect of the disorder on the transport properties due
to the exponential suppression of tunneling." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195431 2016-12-22 2017-05-31 "['Thiessen', 'Diaz', 'Roemer', 'Dominguez-Adame']"
1612.07817 "Massive spinons in $S=1/2$ spin chains: spinon-pair operator
  representation" cond-mat.str-el "Spinons are among the generic excitations in one-dimensional spin systems,
they can be massless or massive. The quantitative description of massive
spinons poses a considerable challenge in spite of various variational
approaches. We show that a representation in terms of hopping and Bogoliubov
spinon processes, which we call ""spinon-pair"" operators, and their combination
is possible. We refer to such a representation as second quantized form.
Neglecting terms which change the number of spinons yields the variational
results. Treating the bilinear and quartic terms by continuous unitary
transformations leads to considerably improved results. Thus, we provide the
proof-of-principle that systems displaying massive spinons as elementary
excitations can be treated in second quantization based on spinon-pair
representation." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.155136 2016-12-22 2017-05-28 "['Hafez-Torbati', 'Uhrig']"
1612.07953 "Fermi surface deformations and pairing in mixtures of dipolar and
  non-dipolar fermions" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study mass-imbalanced two-component Fermi mixtures, where one of the
components consists of dipolar fermions. We specifically study the mass
imbalances corresponding to the atomic ${}^{163}$Dy-${}^{40}$K and
${}^{53}$Cr-${}^{6}$Li mixtures. We study the onset of the $s$-wave superfluid
phase, as a function of population imbalance and the dipolar interaction
strength. We find the critical temperature and the Fermi surface deformations
at the transition to depend on the dipolar interaction strength, where the
critical temperature increases (decreases) with dipolar interaction strength
for a majority (minority) of dipolar atoms. We present momentum distributions
of both components where the Fermi surface deformations are visible."  2016-12-23 2017-05-30 "['Baarsma', 'Törmä']"
1612.08223 "Nonreciprocal reconfigurable microwave optomechanical circuit" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "Devices that achieve nonreciprocal microwave transmission are ubiquitous in
radar and radio-frequency communication systems, and commonly rely on
magnetically biased ferrite materials. Such devices are also indispensable in
the readout chains of superconducting quantum circuits as they protect
sensitive quantum systems from the noise emitted by readout electronics. Since
ferrite-based nonreciprocal devices are bulky, lossy, and require large
magnetic fields, there has been significant interest in magnetic-field-free
on-chip alternatives, such as those recently implemented using Josephson
junctions. Here we realise reconfigurable nonreciprocal transmission between
two microwave modes using purely optomechanical interactions in a
superconducting electromechanical circuit. We analyse the transmission as well
as the noise properties of this nonreciprocal circuit. The scheme relies on the
interference in two mechanical modes that mediate coupling between microwave
cavities. Finally, we show how quantum-limited circulators can be realized with
the same principle. The technology can be built on-chip without any external
magnetic field, and is hence fully compatible with superconducting quantum
circuits. All-optomechanically-mediated nonreciprocity demonstrated here can
also be extended to implement directional amplifiers, and it forms the basis
towards realising topological states of light and sound."  2016-12-24 2017-06-01 "['Bernier', 'Tóth', 'Koottandavida', 'Ioannou', 'Malz', 'Nunnenkamp', 'Feofanov', 'Kippenberg']"
1612.08404 "Microscopic derivation of the hydrodynamics of active-Brownian-particle
  suspensions" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.soft" "We derive the hydrodynamic equations of motion for a fluid of active
particles described by under- damped Langevin equations that reduce to the
Active-Brownian-Particle model, in the overdamped limit. The contraction into
the hydrodynamic description is performed by locally averaging the par- ticle
dynamics with the non-equilibrium many-particle probability density, whose
formal expression is found in the physically relevant limit of high-friction
through a multiple-time-scale analysis. This approach permits to identify the
conditions under which self-propulsion can be subsumed into the fluid stress
tensor and thus to define systematically and unambiguously the local pressure
of the active fluid." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052142 2016-12-26  "['Steffenoni', 'Falasco', 'Kroy']"
1612.08436 "Experimental realization of a long-range antiferromagnet in the Hubbard
  model with ultracold atoms" cond-mat.quant-gas "Many exotic phenomena in strongly correlated electron systems emerge from the
interplay between spin and motional degrees of freedom. For example, doping an
antiferromagnet gives rise to interesting phases including pseudogap states and
high-temperature superconductors. A promising route towards achieving a
complete understanding of these materials begins with analytic and
computational analysis of simplified models. Quantum simulation has recently
emerged as a complementary approach towards understanding these models.
Ultracold fermions in optical lattices offer the potential to answer open
questions on the low-temperature regime of the doped Hubbard model, which is
thought to capture essential aspects of the cuprate superconductor phase
diagram but is numerically intractable in that parameter regime. A new
perspective is afforded by quantum gas microscopy of fermions, which allows
readout of magnetic correlations at the site-resolved level. Here we report the
realization of an antiferromagnet in a repulsively interacting Fermi gas on a
2D square lattice of approximately 80 sites. Using site-resolved imaging, we
detect (finite-size) antiferromagnetic long-range order (LRO) through the
development of a peak in the spin structure factor and the divergence of the
correlation length that reaches the size of the system. At our lowest
temperature of T/t = 0.25(2) we find strong order across the entire sample. Our
experimental platform enables doping away from half filling, where pseudogap
states and stripe ordering are expected, but theoretical methods become
numerically intractable. In this regime we find that the antiferromagnetic LRO
persists to hole dopings of about 15%, providing a guideline for computational
methods. Our results demonstrate that quantum gas microscopy of ultracold
fermions in optical lattices can now address open questions on the
low-temperature Hubbard model." 10.1038/nature22362 2016-12-26  "['Mazurenko', 'Chiu', 'Ji', 'Parsons', 'Kanász-Nagy', 'Schmidt', 'Grusdt', 'Demler', 'Greif', 'Greiner']"
1612.08602 "Observation of Acoustic Valley Vortex States and Valley-Chirality Locked
  Beam Splitting" cond-mat.mes-hall "The Letter reports an experimental observation of the classical version of
valley polarized states in a two-dimensional hexagonal sonic crystal, where the
inversion-symmetry breaking of scatterers induces an omnidirectional frequency
gap. The acoustic valley states, which carry specific linear momenta and
orbital angular momenta, were selectively excited by external Gaussian beams
and conveniently confirmed by the pressure distribution outside the crystal,
according to the criterion of momentum conservation. The vortex nature of such
intriguing crystal states was directly characterized by scanning the phase
profile inside the crystal. In addition, we observed a peculiar beam splitting
phenomenon, in which the separated beams are constructed by different valleys
and locked to the opposite vortex chirality. The exceptional sound transport,
encoded with valley-chirality locked information, may serve as the basis of
designing conceptually novel acoustic devices with unconventional functions." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174106 2016-12-27 2016-12-31 "['Ye', 'Qiu', 'Lu', 'Wen', 'Shen', 'Ke', 'Zhang', 'Liu']"
1612.08616 "Transient Dissipation and Structural Costs of Physical Information
  Transduction" "cond-mat.stat-mech cs.IT math.IT nlin.AO" "A central result that arose in applying information theory to the stochastic
thermodynamics of nonlinear dynamical systems is the Information-Processing
Second Law (IPSL): the physical entropy of the universe can decrease if
compensated by the Shannon-Kolmogorov-Sinai entropy change of appropriate
information-carrying degrees of freedom. In particular, the asymptotic-rate
IPSL precisely delineates the thermodynamic functioning of autonomous
Maxwellian demons and information engines. How do these systems begin to
function as engines, Landauer erasers, and error correctors? Here, we identify
a minimal, inescapable transient dissipation engendered by physical information
processing not captured by asymptotic rates, but critical to adaptive
thermodynamic processes such as found in biological systems. A component of
transient dissipation, we also identify an implementation-dependent cost that
varies from one physical substrate to another for the same information
processing task. Applying these results to producing structured patterns from a
structureless information reservoir, we show that ""retrodictive"" generators
achieve the minimal costs. The results establish the thermodynamic toll imposed
by a physical system's structure as it comes to optimally transduce
information." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.220602 2016-12-23  "['Boyd', 'Mandal', 'Riechers', 'Crutchfield']"
1612.08630 "Entanglement scaling of operators: a conformal field theory approach,
  with a glimpse of simulability of long-time dynamics in 1+1d" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech hep-th quant-ph" "In one dimension, the area law and its implications for the approximability
by Matrix Product States are the key to efficient numerical simulations
involving quantum states. Similarly, in simulations involving quantum
operators, the approximability by Matrix Product Operators (in Hilbert-Schmidt
norm) is tied to an operator area law, namely the fact that the Operator Space
Entanglement Entropy (OSEE)---the natural analog of entanglement entropy for
operators, investigated by Zanardi [Phys. Rev. A 63, 040304(R) (2001)] and by
Prosen and Pizorn [Phys. Rev. A 76, 032316 (2007)]---, is bounded. In the
present paper, it is shown that the OSEE can be calculated in two-dimensional
conformal field theory, in a number of situations that are relevant to
questions of simulability of long-time dynamics in one spatial dimension.
  It is argued that: (i) thermal density matrices $\rho \propto e^{-\beta H}$
and Generalized Gibbs Ensemble density matrices $\rho \propto e^{- H_{\rm
GGE}}$ with local $H_{\rm GGE}$ generically obey the operator area law; (ii)
after a global quench, the OSEE first grows linearly with time, then decreases
back to its thermal or GGE saturation value, implying that, while the operator
area law is satisfied both in the initial state and in the asymptotic
stationary state at large time, it is strongly violated in the transient
regime; (iii) the OSEE of the evolution operator $U(t) = e^{-i H t}$ increases
linearly with $t$, unless the Hamiltonian is in a localized phase; (iv) local
operators in Heisenberg picture, $\phi(t) = e^{i H t} \phi e^{-i H t}$, have an
OSEE that grows sublinearly in time (perhaps logarithmically), however it is
unclear whether this effect can be captured in a traditional CFT framework, as
the free fermion case hints at an unexpected breakdown of conformal invariance." 10.1088/1751-8121/aa6f38 2016-12-27 2017-06-06 ['Dubail']
1612.08805 "Magnetic structure of Cu2MnBO5 ludwigite: thermodynamic, magnetic
  properties and neutron diffraction study" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.chem-ph" "We report on the thermodynamic, magnetic properties and the magnetic
structure of ludwigite-type Cu2MnBO5. The specific heat, the low-field
magnetization and the paramagnetic susceptibility were studied on a single
crystal and combined with powder neutron diffraction data. The temperature
dependence of the specific heat and the neutron diffraction pattern reveal a
single magnetic phase transition at T=92 K, which corresponds to the magnetic
ordering into a ferromagnetic phase. The cation distribution and the values and
directions of magnetic moments of ions in different crystallographic sites are
established. The magnetic moments of Cu2+ and Mn3+ ions occupying different
magnetic sites in the ferrimagnetic phase are pairwise antiparallel and their
directions do not coincide with the directions of the principal
crystallographic axes.The small value of the magnetic moment of copper ions
occupying site 2a is indicative of partial disordering of the magnetic moments
on this site. The magnetization measurements show a strong temperature
hysteresis of magnetization, which evidences for field-dependent transitions
below the phase transition temperature." 10.1088/1361-648X/aa7020 2016-12-28  "['Moshkina', 'Ritter', 'Eremin', 'Sofronova', 'Kartashev', 'Dubrovskiy', 'Bezmaternykh']"
1612.08905 "Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid and localization in Weyl semimetals" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall" "We study both noncentrosymmetric and time-reversal breaking Weyl semimetal
systems under a strong magnetic field with the Coulomb interaction. The
three-dimensional bulk system is reduced to many mutually interacting
quasi-one-dimensional wires. Each strongly correlated wire can be approached
within the Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid formalism. Including impurity scatterings,
we inspect the localization effect and the temperature dependence of the
electrical resistivity. The effect of a large number of Weyl points in real
materials is also discussed." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205143 2016-12-28 2016-12-29 "['Zhang', 'Nagaosa']"
1612.09599 "Modeling aggregation processes of Lennard-Jones particles via stochastic
  networks" "cond-mat.stat-mech physics.atm-clus" "We model an isothermal aggregation process of particles/atoms interacting
according to the Lennard-Jones pair potential by mapping the energy landscapes
of each cluster size $N$ onto stochastic networks, computing transition
probabilities {from} the network for an $N$-particle cluster to the one for
$N+1$, and connecting these networks into a single joint network. The
attachment rate is a control parameter. The resulting network representing the
aggregation of up to 14 particles contains {6427} vertices. It is not only
time-irreversible but also reducible. To analyze its transient dynamics, we
introduce the sequence of the expected initial and pre-attachment distributions
and compute them for a wide range of attachment rates and three values of
temperature. As a result, we find the {configurations most likely to be
observed} in the process of aggregation for each cluster size. We examine the
attachment process and conduct a structural analysis of the sets of local
energy minima for every cluster size. We show that both processes taking place
in the network, attachment and relaxation, lead to the dominance of icosahedral
packing in small (up to 14 atom) clusters." 10.1007/s10955-017-1794-y 2016-12-29 2017-04-11 "['Forman', 'Cameron']"
1701.00149 "Crystalline hydrogenation of graphene by STM tip-induced field
  dissociation of H$_2$" cond-mat.mes-hall "We have developed a novel method for crystalline hydrogenation of graphene on
the nanoscale. Molecular hydrogen was physisorbed at 5 K onto pristine graphene
islands grown on Cu(111) in ultrahigh vacuum. Field emission local to the tip
of a scanning tunneling microscope dissociates H$_2$ and results in
hydrogenated graphene. At lower coverage, isolated point defects are found on
the graphene and are attributed to chemisorbed H on top and bottom surfaces.
Repeated H$_2$ exposure and field emission yielded patches and then complete
coverage of a crystalline $\sqrt{3}$ $\times$ $\sqrt{3}$ R30{\deg} phase, as
well as less densely packed 3 $\times$ 3 and 4 $\times$ 4 structures. The
hydrogenation can be reversed by imaging with higher bias voltage."  2016-12-31 2017-06-03 "['Tjung', 'Hollen', 'Gambrel', 'Santagata', 'Johnston-Halperin', 'Gupta']"
1701.00382 "All-thermal transistor based on stochastic switching" cond-mat.mes-hall "Fluctuations are strong in mesoscopic systems and have to be taken into
account for the description of transport. We show that they can even be used as
a resource for the operation of a system as a device. We use the physics of
single-electron tunneling to propose a bipartite device working as a thermal
transistor. Charge and heat currents in a two terminal conductor can be gated
by thermal fluctuations from a third terminal to which it is capacitively
coupled. The gate system can act as a switch that injects neither charge nor
energy into the conductor hence achieving huge amplification factors.
Non-thermal properties of the tunneling electrons can be exploited to operate
the device with no energy consumption." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.241401 2017-01-02 2017-06-01 "['Sánchez', 'Thierschmann', 'Molenkamp']"
1701.00451 "Proof of concept for an ultrasensitive meta-device to detect and
  localize nonlinear elastic sources" "physics.ins-det cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "The appearance of nonlinear effects in elastic wave propagation is one of the
most reliable and sensitive indicators of the onset of material damage.
However, these effects are usually very small and can be detected only using
cumbersome digital signal processing techniques. Here, we propose and
experimentally validate an alternative approach, using the filtering and
focusing properties of elastic metamaterials to naturally select the higher
harmonics generated by nonlinear effects and to increase their signal-to noise
ratios, enabling the realization of time-reversal procedures for nonlinear
elastic source detection. The proposed device demonstrates its potential as an
efficient, compact, portable, passive apparatus for nonlinear elastic wave
sensing and damage detection." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.214301 2016-12-25  "['Miniaci', 'Gliozzi', 'Morvan', 'Krushynska', 'Bosia', 'Scalerandi', 'Pugno']"
1701.00618 "First-principles modeling of the Invar effect in Fe65Ni35 by the
  spin-wave method" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Thermal lattice expansion of the Invar Fe65Ni35 alloy is investigated in
first-principles calculations using the spin-wave method, which is generalized
here for the ferromagnetic state with short range order. It is shown that
magnetic short-range order effects make substantial contribution to the
equilibrium lattice constant and cannot be neglected in the accurate ab initio
modeling of the thermal expansion in Fe-Ni alloys. We also demonstrate that at
high temperatures, close and above the magnetic transition, magnetic entropy
associated with transverse and longitudinal spin fluctuations yields a
noticeable contribution to the equilibrium lattice constant. The obtained
theoretical results for the temperature dependent lattice constant are in
semiquantitative agreement with the experimental data apart from the region
close the magnetic transition." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174432 2017-01-03 2017-05-01 ['Ruban']
1701.00933 "Surface spin canting in Fe3O4 and CoFe2O4 nanoparticles probed by high
  resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "High resolution electron energy loss spectroscopy (HR-EELS) is utilized to
probe the surface spin canting in nanoparticles of two technologically
important magnetic materials, i.e. Fe3O4 and CoFe2O4 (CFO). A soft experimental
technique is developed that is capable of extracting EELS spectra with one
atomic plane resolution recorded in a single frame. This yields information at
different depth of the nanoparticle from the surface to the core regions with
high signal to noise ratio and without beam damage. This enables comparing the
fine structures between the surface and core regions of the nanoparticles. The
results confirm earlier observations of uniformly oriented spin canting
structure for CFO with additional information on atom site-selective spin
canting information. In case of Fe3O4 preferred canting orientation forming
core and shell structure is deduced. Unlike earlier reports based on polarized
spin-flip neutron scattering measurement, it is possible to narrow down the
possible canting angles for Fe3O4 (Td, Oh tilts 40{\deg}, 40{\deg}) and CFO
(Td, Oh tilts 17{\deg}, 17{\deg}) from the experimental spectra combined with
the first principle based calculation considering non-collinear magnetism. In
addition, the role of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction in stabilizing the spin
canting at the nanoparticle surface is discussed. The results demonstrate that
HREELS can be a powerful technique to probe the magnetic structure in
nano-dimensional systems and has advantages over neutron based techniques in
terms of superior spatial resolution, site specific information and easy of
sample preparation." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174444 2017-01-04  "['Negi', 'Sharona', 'Bhat', 'Palchoudhury', 'Gupta', 'Datta']"
1701.01019 "Shear bands as manifestation of a criticality in yielding amorphous
  solids" cond-mat.dis-nn "Amorphous solids increase their stress as a function of an applied strain
until a mechanical yield point whereupon the stress cannot increase anymore,
afterwards exhibiting a steady state with a constant mean stress. In stress
controlled experiments the system simply breaks when pushed beyond this mean
stress. The ubiquity of this phenomenon over a huge variety of amorphous solids
calls for a generic theory that is free of microscopic details. Here we offer
such a theory: the mechanical yield is a thermodynamic phase transition, where
yield occurs as a spinodal phenomenon. At the spinodal point there exists a
divergent correlation length which is associated with the system-spanning
instabilities (known also as shear bands) which are typical to the mechanical
yield. The theory, the order parameter used and the correlation functions which
exhibit the divergent correlation length are universal in nature and can be
applied to any amorphous solids that undergo mechanical yield." 10.1073/pnas.1700075114 2017-01-04 2017-03-29 "['Parisi', 'Procaccia', 'Rainone', 'Singh']"
1701.01509 "Spin Analogues of Superconductivity and the Integer Quantum Hall Effect
  in an Array of Spin Chains" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.str-el" "Motivated by the successful idea of using weakly-coupled quantum electronic
wires to realize the quantum Hall effects and the quantum spin Hall effects, we
theoretically construct two systems composed of weakly-coupled quantum spin
chains, which can exhibit spin analogues of superconductivity and the integer
quantum Hall effect. Specifically, a certain bilayer of two arrays of
interacting spin chains is mapped, via the Jordan-Wigner transformation, to a
negative-$U$ Hubbard model that exhibits superconductivity. In addition, an
array of spin-orbit-coupled spin chains in the presence of an suitable external
magnetic field is transformed to an array of quantum wires that exhibits the
integer quantum Hall effect. The resultant spin superconductivity and spin
integer quantum Hall effect can be characterized by their ability to transport
spin without any resistance." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.180405 2017-01-05  "['Hill', 'Kim', 'Tserkovnyak']"
1701.01559 "Emergence and scaling of spin turbulence in quenched antiferromagnetic
  spinor Bose-Einstein condensates" cond-mat.quant-gas "We investigate the phase transition dynamics of a quasi-2D antiferromagnetic
spin-1 Bose-Einstein condensate from the easy-axis polar phase to the
easy-plane polar phase, which is initiated by suddenly changing the sign of the
quadratic Zeeman energy $q$. We observe the emergence and decay of spin
turbulence and the formation of half-quantum vortices (HQVs) in the quenched
condensate. The characteristic time and length scales of the turbulence
generation dynamics are proportional to $|q|^{-1/2}$ as inherited from the
dynamic instability of the initial state. In the evolution of the spin
turbulence, spin wave excitations develop from large to small length scales,
suggesting a direct energy cascade, and the spin population for the axial polar
domains exhibit a nonexponential decay. The final equilibrated condensate
contains HQVs, and the number is found to increase and saturate with increasing
$|q|$. Our results demonstrate the time-space scaling properties of the phase
transition dynamics near the critical point and the peculiarities of the spin
turbulence state of the antiferromagnetic spinor condensate." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053638 2017-01-06 2017-05-10 "['Kang', 'Seo', 'Kim', 'Shin']"
1701.02142 "Extended states with Poisson spectral statistics" cond-mat.stat-mech "Contrary to prevailing notion we find that the spectrum associated with the
extended states in a complex system may belong to the Poisson universality
class if the system is subjected to a specific set of constraints. Our results
are based on an exact theoretical as well as numerical analysis of column
constrained chiral ensembles with circulant off-diagonal blocks and are
relevant for a complete understanding of the eigenfunction localization and
related physical properties." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.062102 2017-01-09  "['Mondal', 'Sadhukhan', 'Shukla']"
1701.02249 "Photostrictive two-dimensional materials in the monochalcogenide family" cond-mat.mes-hall "Photostriction is predicted for SnS and SnSe monolayers, two-dimensional
ferroelectrics with rectangular unit cells (the lattice vector $\mathbf{a}_1$
is larger than $\mathbf{a}_2$) and an intrinsic dipole moment parallel to
$\mathbf{a}_1$. Photostriction in these two-dimensional materials is found to
be induced by a screened electric polarization in the photoexcited electronic
state (i.e., a converse piezoelectric effect) that leads to a compression of
$a_1$ and a comparatively smaller increase of $a_2$ for a reduced unit cell
area. The structural change documented here is ten times larger than that
observed in BiFeO$_3$, making monochalcogenide monolayers an ultimate platform
for this effect. This structural modification should be observable under
experimentally feasible densities of photexcited carriers on samples that have
been grown already, having a potential usefulness for light-induced, remote
mechano-opto-electronic applications." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.227401 2017-01-09  "['Haleoot', 'Paillard', 'Mehboudi', 'Xu', 'Bellaiche', 'Barraza-Lopez']"
1701.02305 "Crossover between various initial conditions in KPZ growth: flat to
  stationary" "cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.MP" "We conjecture the universal probability distribution at large time for the
one-point height in the 1D Kardar-Parisi-Zhang (KPZ) stochastic growth
universality class, with initial conditions interpolating from any one of the
three main classes (droplet, flat, stationary) on the left, to another on the
right, allowing for drifts and also for a step near the origin. The result is
obtained from a replica Bethe ansatz calculation starting from the KPZ
continuum equation, together with a ""decoupling assumption"" in the large time
limit. Some cases are checked to be equivalent to previously known results from
other models in the same class, which provides a test of the method, others
appear to be new. In particular we obtain the crossover distribution between
flat and stationary initial conditions (crossover from Airy$_1$ to Airy$_{{\rm
stat}}$) in a simple compact form." 10.1088/1742-5468/aa6f3e 2017-01-08  ['Doussal']
1701.02430 "Motion of skyrmions in nanowires driven by magnonic momentum-transfer
  forces" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study the motion of magnetic skyrmions in a nanowire induced by a
spin-wave current $J$ flowing out of a driving layer close to the edge of the
wire. By applying micromagnetic simulation and an analysis of the effective
Thiele equation, we find that the skyrmion trajectory is governed by an
interplay of both forces due to the magnon current and the wire boundary. The
skyrmion is attracted to the driving layer and is accelerated by the repulsive
force due to the wire boundary. We consider both cases of a driving
longitudinal and transverse to the nanowire, but a steady-state motion of the
skyrmion is only obtained for a transverse magnon current. For the latter case,
we find in the limit of low current densities $J$ the velocity-current relation
$v \sim J/\alpha$ where $v$ is the skyrmion velocity and $\alpha$ is the
Gilbert damping. For large $J$ in case of strong driving, the skyrmion is
pushed into the driving layer resulting in a drop of the skyrmion velocity and,
eventually, the destruction of the skyrmion." 10.1088/1367-2630/aa6b70 2017-01-09 2017-06-05 "['Zhang', 'Müller', 'Xia', 'Garst', 'Liu', 'Zhou']"
1701.02465 "Nondivergent and negative susceptibilities around critical points of a
  long-range Hamiltonian system with two order parameters" cond-mat.stat-mech "The linear response is investigated in a long-range Hamiltonian system from
the view point of dynamics, which is described by the Vlasov equation in the
limit of large population. Due to existence of the Casimir invariants of the
Vlasov dynamics, an external field does not drive the system to the forced
thermal equilibrium in general, and the linear response is suppressed. With the
aid of a linear response theory based on the Vlasov dynamics, we compute the
suppressed linear response in a system having two order parameters, which
introduce the conjugate two external fields and the susceptibility matrix of
size two accordingly. Moreover, the two order parameters bring three phases and
the three types of second-order phase transitions between two of them. For each
type of the phase transitions, all the critical exponents for elements of the
susceptibility matrix are computed. The critical exponents reveal that some
elements of the matrices do not diverge even at critical points, while the
mean-field theory predicts divergences. The linear response theory also
suggests appearance of negative off-diagonal elements, in other words, an
applied external field decreases the value of an order parameter. These
theoretical predictions are confirmed by direct numerical simulations of the
Vlasov equation." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052148 2017-01-10  "['Yamaguchi', 'Sawai']"
1701.02520 "Mean field approach to first and second order phase transitions in ionic
  liquids" "cond-mat.soft nlin.AO physics.chem-ph" "Ionic liquids are solvent-free electrolytes, some of which possess an
intriguing self-assembly property. Using a mean-field framework (based on
Onsager's relations) we show that bulk nano-structures arise via type-I and II
phase transitions (PT), which directly affect the electrical double layer (EDL)
structure. Ginzburg-Landau equation is derived and PT are related to
temperature, potential and interactions. The type-I PT occurs for geometrically
dissimilar anion/cation ratio and, surprisingly, is induced by perturbations on
order of thermal fluctuations. Finally, we compare the insights with the
decaying charge layers within the EDL, as widely observed in experiments." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.060201 2017-01-10  "['Bier', 'Gavish', 'Uecker', 'Yochelis']"
1701.03110 "Evolution of Entanglement Entropy in Orbifold CFTs" "hep-th cond-mat.stat-mech" "In this work we study the time evolution of Renyi entanglement entropy for
locally excited states created by twist operators in cyclic orbifold
$(T^2)^n/\mathbb{Z}_n$ and symmetric orbifold $(T^2)^n/S_n$. We find that when
the square of its compactification radius is rational, the second Renyi entropy
approaches a universal constant equal to the logarithm of the quantum dimension
of the twist operator. On the other hand, in the non-rational case, we find a
new scaling law for the Renyi entropies given by the double logarithm of time
$\log\log t$ for the cyclic orbifold CFT." 10.1088/1751-8121/aa6e08 2017-01-11 2017-05-29 "['Caputa', 'Kusuki', 'Takayanagi', 'Watanabe']"
1701.03273 "Fermion pairing in mixed-dimensional atomic mixtures" cond-mat.quant-gas "We investigate the quantum phases of mixed-dimensional cold atom mixtures. In
particular, we consider a mixture of a Fermi gas in a two-dimensional lattice,
interacting with a bulk Fermi gas or a Bose-Einstein condensate in a
three-dimensional lattice. The effective interaction of the two-dimensional
system mediated by the bulk system is determined. We perform a functional
renormalization group analysis, and demonstrate that by tuning the properties
of the bulk system, a subtle competition of several superconducting orders can
be controlled among $s$-wave, $p$-wave, $d_{x^2-y^2}$-wave, and
$g_{xy(x^2-y^2)}$-wave pairing symmetries. Other instabilities such as a
charge-density wave order are also demonstrated to occur. In particular, we
find that the critical temperature of the $d$-wave pairing induced by the
next-nearest-neighbor interactions can be an order of magnitude larger than
that of the same pairing induced by doping in the simple Hubbard model. We
expect that by combining the nearest-neighbor interaction with the
next-nearest-neighbor hopping (known to enhance $d$-wave pairing), an even
higher critical temperature may be achieved." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053633 2017-01-12 2017-05-26 "['Okamoto', 'Mathey', 'Huang']"
1701.03659 "Delocalized charge carriers in strongly disordered t-J model" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.quant-gas" "We study the influence of the electron-magnon interaction on the particle
transport in strongly disordered systems. The analysis is based on results
obtained for a single hole in the one-dimensional t-J model. Unless there
exists a mechanism that localizes spin excitations, the charge carrier remains
delocalized even for a very strong disorder and shows subdiffusive motion up to
the longest accessible times. However, upon inspection of the propagation times
between neighboring sites as well as a careful finite-size scaling we
conjecture that the anomalous subdiffusive transport may be transient and
should eventually evolve into a normal diffusive motion." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.214201 2017-01-13  "['Bonca', 'Mierzejewski']"
1701.03793 "Interaction effects in a microscopic quantum wire model with strong
  spin-orbit interaction" cond-mat.str-el "We investigate the effect of strong interactions on the spectral properties
of quantum wires with strong Rashba spin-orbit interaction in a magnetic field,
using a combination of Matrix Product State and bosonization techniques.
Quantum wires with strong Rashba spin-orbit interaction and magnetic field
exhibit a partial gap in one-half of the conducting modes. Such systems have
attracted wide-spread experimental and theoretical attention due to their
unusual physical properties, among which are spin-dependent transport, or a
topological superconducting phase when under the proximity effect of an s-wave
superconductor. As a microscopic model for the quantum wire we study an
extended Hubbard model with spin-orbit interaction and Zeeman field. We obtain
spin resolved spectral densities from the real-time evolution of excitations,
and calculate the phase diagram. We find that interactions increase the pseudo
gap at $k = 0$ and thus also enhance the Majorana-supporting phase and
stabilize the helical spin order. Furthermore, we calculate the optical
conductivity and compare it with the low energy spiral Luttinger Liquid result,
obtained from field theoretical calculations. With interactions, the optical
conductivity is dominated by an excotic excitation of a bound
soliton-antisoliton pair known as a breather state. We visualize the
oscillating motion of the breather state, which could provide the route to
their experimental detection in e.g. cold atom experiments." 10.1088/1367-2630/aa7027 2017-01-13 2017-04-09 "['Winkler', 'Ganahl', 'Schuricht', 'Evertz', 'Andergassen']"
1701.03796 "Randomized benchmarking of barrier versus tilt control of a
  singlet-triplet qubit" cond-mat.mes-hall "Decoherence due to charge noise is one of the central challenges in using
spin qubits in semiconductor quantum dots as a platform for quantum information
processing. Recently, it has been experimentally demonstrated in both Si and
GaAs singlet-triplet qubits that the effects of charge noise can be suppressed
if qubit operations are implemented using symmetric barrier control instead of
the standard tilt control. Here, we investigate the key issue of whether the
benefits of barrier control persist over the entire set of single-qubit gates
by performing randomized benchmarking simulations. We find the surprising
result that the improvement afforded by barrier control depends sensitively on
the amount of spin noise: for the minimal nuclear spin noise levels present in
Si, the coherence time improves by more than two orders of magnitude whereas in
GaAs, by contrast the coherence time is essentially the same for barrier and
tilt control. However, we establish that barrier control becomes beneficial if
qubit operations are performed using a new family of composite pulses that
reduce gate times by up to 90%. With these optimized pulses, barrier control is
the best way to achieve high-fidelity quantum gates in singlet-triplet qubits." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.216802 2017-01-13 2017-05-29 "['Zhang', 'Throckmorton', 'Yang', 'Wang', 'Barnes', 'Sarma']"
1701.03857 "Multichannel Molecular State and Rectified Short-range Boundary
  Condition for Spin-orbit Coupled Ultracold Fermions Near p-wave Resonances" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study the interplay of spin-orbit coupling (SOC) and strong p-wave
interaction to the scattering property of spin-1/2 ultracold Fermi gases. Based
on a two-channel square-well potential generating p-wave resonance, we show
that the presence of an isotropic SOC, even for its length much longer than the
potential range, can greatly modify the p-wave short-range boundary
condition(BC). As a result, the conventional p-wave BC cannot predict the
induced molecules near p-wave resonance, which can be fully destroyed to vanish
due to strong interference between s- and p-wave channels. By analyzing the
intrinsic reasons for the breakdown of conventional BC, we propose a new p-wave
BC that can excellently reproduce the exact molecule solutions and also equally
apply for a wide class of single-particle potentials besides SOC. This work
reveals the significant effect of SOC to both the short- and long-range
properties of fermions near p-wave resonance, paving the way for future
exploring interesting few- and many-body physics in such system." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.030701 2017-01-13 2017-03-08 ['Cui']
1701.03872 "Symmetric minimally entangled typical thermal states for canonical and
  grand-canonical ensembles" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "Based on the density matrix renormalization group (DMRG), strongly correlated
quantum many-body systems at finite temperatures can be simulated by sampling
over a certain class of pure matrix product states (MPS) called minimally
entangled typical thermal states (METTS). When a system features symmetries,
these can be utilized to substantially reduce MPS computation costs. It is
conceptually straightforward to simulate canonical ensembles using symmetric
METTS. In practice, it is important to alternate between different symmetric
collapse bases to decrease autocorrelations in the Markov chain of METTS. To
this purpose, we introduce symmetric Fourier and Haar-random block bases that
are efficiently mixing. We also show how grand-canonical ensembles can be
simulated efficiently with symmetric METTS. We demonstrate these approaches for
spin-1/2 XXZ chains and discuss how the choice of the collapse bases influences
autocorrelations as well as the distribution of measurement values and, hence,
convergence speeds." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195148 2017-01-13 2017-06-06 "['Binder', 'Barthel']"
1701.03886 "Paving Spin-Wave Fibers in Magnonic Nanocircuits Using Spin-Orbit Torque" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Recent studies have revealed that domain walls in magnetic nanostructures can
serve as compact, energy-efficient spin-wave waveguides for building magnonic
devices that are considered promising candidates for overcoming the challenges
and bottlenecks of today's CMOS technologies. However, imprinting long
strip-domain walls into magnetic nanowires remains a challenge, especially in
curved geometries. Here, through micromagnetic simulations, we present a method
for writing strip-domain walls into curved magnetic nanowires using spin-orbit
torque. We employ Y-shaped magnetic nanostructures as well as an S-shaped
magnetic nanowire to demonstrate the injection process. In addition, we verify
that the Y-shaped nanostructures that incorporate strip-domain walls can
function as superior spin-wave multiplexers, and that spin-wave propagation
along each conduit can be controllably manipulated. This spin-wave multiplexer
based on strip-domain walls is expected to become a key signal-processing
component in magnon spintronics." 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.7.054016 2017-01-14  "['Xing', 'Pong', 'Åkerman', 'Zhou']"
1701.03936 "Berry phase shift from 2 $\pi$ to $\pi$ in Bilayer graphene by
  Li-intercalation and sequential desorption" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We have found that the Berry phase of bilayer graphene becomes from 2$\pi$
estimated by Shubnikov-de Haas oscillations when the A-B stacked pristine
bilayer graphene experiences the Li-intercalation and sequential Li-desorption
process in ultrahigh vacuum. Furthermore, the mobility of such processed
bilayer graphene increases around four times larger, ~ 8,000 cm2/V$\cdot$s,
than that of the pristine bilayer graphene. This is mainly due to increment of
the scattering time and decrement of the cyclotron mass, which can be
interpreted as a result of the change of the stacking structure of bilayer
graphene from A-B to A-A, corresponding to a change from the parabolic to the
linear band dispersion." 10.1063/1.4984958 2017-01-14  "['Akiyama', 'Takano', 'Endo', 'Ichinokura', 'Nakanishi', 'Nomura', 'Hasegawa']"
1701.03985 "Modulated, three-directional, and polar structural instability in
  layered $d^1$ NaTiO$_2$" cond-mat.str-el "I study the experimentally observed metal-to-metal structural phase
transition in NaTiO$_2$ using density functional calculations. I do not find
the previously proposed low-temperature structure energetically favorable with
respect to the high-temperature rhombohedral structure. The calculated phonon
dispersions of the rhombohedral phase show dynamical instabilities at several
inequivalent parts of the Brillouin zone, including at the wavevector
$(\frac{1}{2},\frac{1}{5},\frac{1}{5})$. These instabilities lead to monoclinic
structures without inversion symmetry that are modulated along all three
directions. The calculated electronic structures show that a local bonding
instability of the Ti $3d$ states is associated with the structural transition." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195149 2017-01-14  ['Subedi']
1701.04248 "Attraction Controls the Inversion of Order by Disorder" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.stat-mech" "We show how including attraction in interparticle interactions reverses the
effect of fluctuations in ordering of a prototypical artificial frustrated
system. Buckled colloidal monolayers exhibit the same ground state as the Ising
antiferromagnet on a deformable triangular lattice, but it is unclear if
ordering in the two systems is driven by the same geometric mechanism. By a
real-space expansion we find that for buckled colloids bent stripes constitute
the stable phase, whereas in the Ising antiferromagnet straight stripes are
favored. For generic pair potentials we show that attraction governs this
selection mechanism, in a manner that is linked to local packing
considerations. This supports the geometric origin of entropy in jammed sphere
packings and provides a tool for designing self-assembled colloidal structures." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.218002 2017-01-16 2017-02-08 "['Leoni', 'Shokef']"
1701.05142 "Emergent Haldane phase in the $S=1$ bilinear-biquadratic Heisenberg
  model on the square lattice" cond-mat.str-el "Infinite projected entangled pair states simulations of the $S=1$
bilinear-biquadratic Heisenberg model on the square lattice reveal an emergent
Haldane phase in between the previously predicted antiferromagnetic and
3-sublattice 120$^\circ$ magnetically ordered phases. This intermediate phase
preserves SU(2) spin and translational symmetry but breaks lattice rotational
symmetry, and it can be adiabatically connected to the Haldane phase of
decoupled $S=1$ chains. Our results contradict previous studies which found a
direct transition between the two magnetically ordered states." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.180404 2017-01-18 2017-05-23 "['Niesen', 'Corboz']"
1701.05621 "Fragmented-condensate solid of dipolar excitons" cond-mat.quant-gas "We discuss a possible link between the recently observed macroscopic ordering
of ultra cold dipolar excitons (MOES) and the phenomenon of supersolidity. In
the dilute limit we predict a stable supersolid state for a
quasi-one-dimensional system of bosonic dipoles characterized by two- and
three-body contact repulsion. We phenomenologically extend our theory to the
strongly-correlated regime and find a critical value of the contact interaction
parameter at which the supersolid exhibits a quantum phase transition to a
fragmented state. The wavelength of the fragmented-condensate solid is defined
by the balance between the quantum pressure and the entropy due to fluctuations
of the relative phases between the fragments. Our model appears to be in good
agreement with the relevant experimental data, including the very recent
results on commensurability effect and wavelength of the MOES." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184519 2017-01-19 2017-05-30 ['Andreev']
1701.05860 "Affine and topological structural entropies in granular statistical
  mechanics: explicit calculations and equation of state" cond-mat.stat-mech "We identify two orthogonal sources of structural entropy in rattler-free
granular systems - affine, involving structural changes that only deform the
contact network, and topological, corresponding to different topologies of the
contact network. We show that a recently developed connectivity-based granular
statistical mechanics separates the two naturally by identifying the structural
degrees of freedom with spanning trees on the graph of the contact network. We
extend the connectivity-based formalism to include constraints on, and
correlations between, degrees of freedom as interactions between branches of
the spanning tree. We then use the statistical mechanics formalism to calculate
the partition function generally and the different entropies in the
high-angoricity limit. We also calculate the degeneracy of the affine entropy
and a number of expectation values. From the latter, we derive an equipartition
principle and an equation of state relating the macroscopic volume and boundary
stress to the analogue of the temperature, the contactivity." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052905 2017-01-20 2017-06-01 "['Amitai', 'Blumenfeld']"
1701.06046 "Tuning electronic properties of FeSe$_{0.5}$Te$_{0.5}$ thin flakes by a
  novel field effect transistor" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "Using a field-effect transistor (FET) configuration with solid Li-ion
conductor (SIC) as gate dielectric, we have successfully tuned carrier density
in FeSe$_{0.5}$Te$_{0.5}$ thin flakes, and the electronic phase diagram has
been mapped out. It is found that electron doping controlled by SIC-FET leads
to a suppression of the superconducting phase, and eventually gives rise to an
insulating state in FeSe$_{0.5}$Te$_{0.5}$. During the gating process, the
(001) peak in XRD patterns stays at the same position and no new diffraction
peak emerges, indicating no evident Li$^+$ ions intercalation into the
FeSe$_{0.5}$Te$_{0.5}$. It indicates that a systematic change of electronic
properties in FeSe$_{0.5}$Te$_{0.5}$ arises from the electrostatic doping
induced by the accumulation of Li$^+$ ions at the interface between
FeSe$_{0.5}$Te$_{0.5}$ and solid ion conductor in the devices. It is striking
that these findings are drastically different from the observation in FeSe thin
flakes using the same SIC-FET, in which $T_c$ is enhanced from 8 K to larger
than 40 K, then the system goes into an insulating phase accompanied by
structural transitions." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174513 2017-01-21  "['Zhu', 'Cui', 'Lei', 'Wang', 'Shang', 'Meng', 'Ma', 'Luo', 'Wu', 'Sun', 'Chen']"
1701.06284 "Ab initio calculation of the $G$ peak intensity of graphene: Combined
  study of the laser and Fermi energy dependence and importance of quantum
  interference effects" cond-mat.mes-hall "We present the results of a diagrammatic, fully ab initio calculation of the
$G$ peak intensity of graphene. The flexibility and generality of our approach
enables us to go beyond the previous analytical calculations in the low-energy
regime. We study the laser and Fermi energy dependence of the $G$ peak
intensity and analyze the contributions from resonant and non-resonant
electronic transitions. In particular, we explicitly demonstrate the importance
of quantum interference and non-resonant states for the $G$ peak process. Our
method of analysis and computational concept is completely general and can
easily be applied to study other materials as well." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195422 2017-01-23  "['Reichardt', 'Wirtz']"
1701.07055 "Tailoring spin defects in diamond" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "Atomic-size spin defects in solids are unique quantum systems. Most
applications require nanometer positioning accuracy, which is typically
achieved by low energy ion implantation. So far, a drawback of this technique
is the significant residual implantation-induced damage to the lattice, which
strongly degrades the performance of spins in quantum applications. In this
letter we show that the charge state of implantation-induced defects
drastically influences the formation of lattice defects during thermal
annealing. We demonstrate that charging of vacancies localized at e.g.
individual nitrogen implantation sites suppresses the formation of vacancy
complexes, resulting in a tenfold-improved spin coherence time of single
nitrogen-vacancy (NV) centers in diamond. This has been achieved by confining
implantation defects into the space charge layer of free carriers generated by
a nanometer-thin boron-doped diamond structure. Besides, a twofold-improved
yield of formation of NV centers is observed. By combining these results with
numerical calculations, we arrive at a quantitative understanding of the
formation and dynamics of the implanted spin defects. The presented results
pave the way for improved engineering of diamond spin defect quantum devices
and other solid-state quantum systems." 10.1038/ncomms15409 2017-01-24  "['de Oliveira', 'Antonov', 'Wang', 'Neumann', 'Momenzadeh', 'Häußermann', 'Pasquarelli', 'Denisenko', 'Wrachtrup']"
1701.07357 "Analysis of contact stiffness in Ultrasound Atomic Force Microscopy:
  Three-dimensional time-dependent ultrasound modeling" cond-mat.mes-hall "Ultrasound Atomic Force Microscopy (US-AFM) has been used for subsurface
imaging of nanostructures. The contact stiffness variations have been suggested
as the origin of the image contrast. Therefore, to analyze the image contrast,
the local changes in the contact stiffness due to the presence of subsurface
features should be calculated. So far, only static simulations have been
conducted to analyze the local changes in the contact stiffness and,
consequently, the contrast in US-AFM. Such a static approach does not fully
represent the real US-AFM experiment, where an ultrasound wave is launched
either into the sample or at the tip, which modulates the contact stiffness.
This is a time-dependent nonlinear dynamic problem rather than a static and
stationary one. This letter presents dynamic 3D ultrasound analysis of contact
stiffness in US-AFM (in contrast to static analysis) to realistically predict
the changes in contact stiffness and thus the changes in the subsurface image
contrast. The modulation frequency also influences the contact stiffness
variations and, thus, the image contrast. The three-dimensional time-dependent
ultrasound analysis will greatly aid in the contrast optimization of subsurface
nanoimaging with US-AFM." 10.1088/1361-6463/aa7024 2017-01-25  "['Piras', 'Sadeghian']"
1701.07389 "Josephson junction dynamics in the presence of $2\pi$- and
  $4\pi$-periodic supercurrents" cond-mat.mes-hall "We investigate theoretically the dynamics of a Josephson junction in the
framework of the RSJ model. We consider a junction that hosts two supercurrrent
contributions: a $2\pi$- and a $4\pi$-periodic in phase, with intensities
$I_{2\pi}$ and $I_{4\pi}$ respectively. We study the size of the Shapiro steps
as a function of the ratio of the intensity of the mentioned contributions,
i.e. $I_{4\pi}/I_{2\pi}$. We provide detailed explanations where to expect
clear signatures of the presence of the $4\pi$-periodic contribution as a
function of the external parameters: the intensity AC-bias $I_\text{ac}$ and
frequency $\omega_\text{ac}$. On the one hand, in the low AC-intensity regime
(where $I_\text{ac}$ is much smaller than the critical current, $I_\text{c}$),
we find that the non-linear dynamics of the junction allows the observation of
only even Shapiro steps even in the unfavorable situation where
$I_{4\pi}/I_{2\pi}\ll 1$. On the other hand, in the opposite limit
($I_\text{ac}\gg I_\text{c}$), even and odd Shapiro steps are present.
Nevertheless, even in this regime, we find signatures of the
$4\pi$-supercurrent in the beating pattern of the even step sizes as a function
of $I_\text{ac}$." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195430 2017-01-25  "['Domínguez', 'Kashuba', 'Bocquillon', 'Wiedenmann', 'Deacon', 'Klapwijk', 'Platero', 'Molenkamp', 'Trauzettel', 'Hankiewicz']"
1701.07406 "Stable high-temperature paramagnons in a three-dimensional
  antiferromagnet near quantum criticality: Application to TlCuCl$_3$" cond-mat.str-el "The complete set of hallmarks of the three-dimensional antiferromagnet near
the quantum critical point has been recently observed in the spin dimer
compound TlCuCl$_3$. Nonetheless, the mechanism, responsible for several
distinct features of the experimental data, has remained a puzzle, namely: (i)
the paramagnons exhibit remarkable robustness to thermal damping and are stable
up to high temperatures, where $k_B T$ is comparable with the excitation
energy, (ii) the width to mass ratios of the high-temperature paramagnons are,
within the error bars, equal to that of the low-temperature amplitude (or
Higgs) mode. We propose such a mechanism and identify two principal factors,
contributing to the scaling between width to mass ratios of the paramagnon and
the amplitude mode: (i) the emergence of the thermal mass scale reorganizing
the paramagnon decay processes, and (ii) substantial renormalization of the
multi-magnon interactions by thermal fluctuations. The study is carried out for
the general case of a $D= 3 + 1$ quantum antiferromagnet within the framework
of the $\varphi^4$ model using the hybrid Callan-Symanzik + Wilson thermal
renormalization group method. Our approach is tested by demonstrating a good
quantitative agreement with available experimental data across the phase
diagram of TlCuCl$_3$." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174437 2017-01-25  "['Fidrysiak', 'Spałek']"
1701.07591 "Is BaCr$_2$As$_2$ symmetrical to BaFe$_2$As$_2$ with respect to half
  $3d$ shell filling?" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "We have performed an angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy study of
BaCr$_2$As$_2$, which has the same crystal structure as BaFe$_2$As$_2$, a
parent compound of Fe-based superconductors. We determine the Fermi surface of
this material and its band dispersion over 5 eV of binding energy. Very
moderate band renormalization (1.35) is observed for only two bands. We
attribute this small renormalization to enhanced direct exchange as compared to
Fe in BaFe$_2$As$_2$, and to a larger contribution of the $e_g$ orbitals in the
composition of the bands forming the Fermi surface, leading to an effective
valence count that is reduced by Fe $d$ - As $p$ hybridization." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184516 2017-01-26 2017-05-25 "['Richard', 'van Roekeghem', 'Lv', 'Qian', 'Kim', 'Hoesch', 'Hu', 'Sefat', 'Biermann', 'Ding']"
1701.07622 "Tunable spider-web inspired hybrid labyrinthine acoustic metamaterials
  for low-frequency sound control" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Attenuating low-frequency sound remains a challenge, despite many advances in
this direction. Recently developed acoustic metamaterials enable efficient
subwavelength wave manipulation and attenuation due to exotic effects such as
unusually high reflectivity, negative refraction or cloaking. In particular,
labyrinthine acoustic metamaterials can provide broadband sound reduction and
exhibit extremely high effective refractive index values due to their
characteristic topological architecture. In this paper, we design a novel
labyrinthine metamaterial with hybrid characteristics compared to previously
proposed structures, by exploiting a spider web-inspired configuration. The
developed metamaterial structure is characterized by additional tunability of
the frequencies at which band gaps or negative group velocity modes occur, thus
enabling versatility in the functionalities of the resulting structures. Time
transient simulations demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed
metamaterials in manipulating wave fields in terms of transmission/reflection
coefficients, amplitude attenuation and time delay properties in broadband
frequency ranges. Results could find applications in the development of
practical lightweight acoustic shielding structures with enhanced broadband
wave-reflecting performance."  2017-01-26 2017-05-31 "['Krushynska', 'Bosia', 'Miniaci', 'Pugno']"
1701.07624 "Two-dimensional Fermi gas in antiparallel magnetic fields" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study a two-dimensional Fermi gas with an attractive interaction subjected
to synthetic magnetic fields assumed to be mutually antiparallel for two
different spin components. By employing the mean-field approximation, we find
that its phase diagram at zero temperature consists of pair superfluid and
quantum spin Hall insulator phases and closely resembles that of the
Bose-Hubbard model. The resulting two phases are separated by a second-order
quantum phase transition classified into the universality class of either the
dilute Bose gas or the XY model. We also show that the pairing gap can be
enhanced significantly by the antiparallel magnetic fields as a consequence of
magnetic catalysis, which may facilitate the realization of the pair superfluid
in two dimensions by ultracold atom experiments." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.051603 2017-01-26 2017-05-25 "['Anzai', 'Nishida']"
1701.08131 "Indistinguishable and efficient single photons from a quantum dot in a
  planar nanobeam waveguide" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "We demonstrate a high-purity source of indistinguishable single photons using
a quantum dot embedded in a nanophotonic waveguide. The source features a
near-unity internal coupling efficiency and the collected photons are
efficiently coupled off-chip by implementing a taper that adiabatically couples
the photons to an optical fiber. By quasi-resonant excitation of the quantum
dot, we measure a single-photon purity larger than $99.4\%$ and a two-photon
interference visibility of $62\pm 2\%$, which is a measure of the degree of
indistinguishability of subsequently emitted photons. A temperature-dependent
study of photon indistinguishability allows pinpointing the residual
decoherence processes as due to excitation-induced photon jitter and phonon
decoherence. The implementation of strict resonant excitation enables improving
the photon indistinguishability to $\sim 86\%$. The study opens a clear pathway
towards the long-standing goal of a fully deterministic source of
indistinguishable photons, which is integrated on a planar photonic chip"  2017-01-27 2017-05-29 "['Kiršanskė', 'Thyrrestrup', 'Daveau', 'Dreeßen', 'Pregnolato', 'Midolo', 'Tighineanu', 'Javadi', 'Stobbe', 'Schott', 'Ludwig', 'Wieck', 'Park', 'Song', 'Kuhlmann', 'Söllner', 'Löbl', 'Warburton', 'Lodahl']"
1701.08221 "Experimental Demonstration of >230{\deg} Phase Modulation in
  Gate-Tunable Graphene-Gold Reconfigurable Mid-Infrared Metasurfaces" cond-mat.mes-hall "Metasurfaces offer significant potential to control far-field light
propagation through the engineering of amplitude, polarization, and phase at an
interface. We report here phase modulation of an electronically reconfigurable
metasurface and demonstrate its utility for mid-infrared beam steering. Using a
gate-tunable graphene-gold resonator geometry, we demonstrate highly tunable
reflected phase at multiple wavelengths and show up to 237{\deg} phase
modulation range at an operating wavelength of 8.50 {\mu}m. We observe a smooth
monotonic modulation of phase with applied voltage from 0{\deg} to 206{\deg} at
a wavelength of 8.70 {\mu}m. Based on these experimental data, we demonstrate
with antenna array calculations an average beam steering efficiency of 50% for
reflected light for angles up to 30{\deg}, relative to an ideal metasurface,
confirming the suitability of this geometry for reconfigurable mid-infrared
beam steering devices." 10.1021/acs.nanolett.7b00359 2017-01-27  "['Sherrott', 'Hon', 'Fountaine', 'Garcia', 'Ponti', 'Brar', 'Sweatlock', 'Atwater']"
1701.08448 "Non-reciprocal quantum Hall devices with driven edge magnetoplasmons in
  2-dimensional materials" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "We develop a theory that describes the response of non-reciprocal devices
employing 2-dimensional materials in the quantum Hall regime capacitively
coupled to external electrodes. As the conduction in these devices is
understood to be associated to the edge magnetoplasmons (EMPs), we first
investigate the EMP problem by using the linear response theory in the random
phase approximation. Our model can incorporate several cases, that were often
treated on different grounds in literature. In particular, we analyze plasmonic
excitations supported by smooth and sharp confining potential in 2-dimensional
electron gas, and in monolayer graphene, and we point out the similarities and
differences in these materials. We also account for a general time-dependent
external drive applied to the system. Finally, we describe the behavior of a
non-reciprocal quantum Hall device: the response contains additional resonant
features, which were not foreseen from previous models." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195317 2017-01-29  "['Bosco', 'DiVincenzo']"
1701.08872 "Geometrical contributions to the exchange constants: Free electrons with
  spin-orbit interaction" cond-mat.mes-hall "Using thermal quantum field theory we derive an expression for the exchange
constant that resembles Fukuyama's formula for the orbital magnetic
susceptibility (OMS). Guided by this formal analogy between the exchange
constant and OMS we identify a contribution to the exchange constant that
arises from the geometrical properties of the band structure in mixed phase
space. We compute the exchange constants for free electrons and show that the
geometrical contribution is generally important. Our formalism allows us to
study the exchange constants in the presence of spin-orbit interaction (SOI).
Thereby, we find sizable differences between the exchange constants of helical
and cycloidal spin spirals. Furthermore, we discuss how to calculate the
exchange constants based on a gauge-field approach in the case of the Rashba
model with an additional exchange splitting and show that the exchange
constants obtained from this gauge-field approach are in perfect agreement with
those obtained from the quantum field theoretical method." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184428 2017-01-30 2017-04-07 "['Freimuth', 'Blügel', 'Mokrousov']"
1701.09089 "Dirac nodal lines and induced spin Hall effect in metallic rutile oxides" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "We have found Dirac nodal lines (DNLs) in the band structures of metallic
rutile oxides IrO$_2$, OsO$_2$, and RuO$_2$ and revealed a large spin Hall
conductivity contributed by these nodal lines, which explains a strong spin
Hall effect (SHE) of IrO$_2$ discovered recently. Two types of DNLs exist. The
first type forms DNL networks that extend in the whole Brillouin zone and
appears only in the absence of spin-orbit coupling (SOC), which induces surface
states on the boundary. Because of SOC-induced band anti-crossing, a large
intrinsic SHE can be realized in these compounds. The second type appears at
the Brillouin zone edges and is stable against SOC because of the protection of
nonsymmorphic symmetry. Besides reporting new DNL materials, our work reveals
the general relationship between DNLs and the SHE, indicating a way to apply
Dirac nodal materials for spintronics." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.235104 2017-01-31  "['Sun', 'Zhang', 'Liu', 'Felser', 'Yan']"
1701.09139 "Statistics of Anderson-localized modes in disordered photonic crystal
  slab waveguides" cond-mat.mes-hall "We present a fully three-dimensional Bloch mode expansion technique and
photon Green function formalism to compute the quality factor, mode volume, and
Purcell enhancement distributions of a disordered W1 photonic crystal slab
waveguide in the slow-light Anderson localization regime. By considering
fabrication (intrinsic) and intentional (extrinsic) disorder we find that the
quality factor and Purcell enhancement statistics are well described by
log-normal distributions without any fitting parameters. We also compare
directly the effects of hole size fluctuations as well as fluctuations in the
hole position. The functional dependence of the mean and standard deviation of
the quality factor and Purcell enhancement distributions is found to decrease
exponentially on the square root of the extrinsic disorder parameter. The
strong coupling probability between a single quantum dot and an
Anderson-localized mode is numerically computed and found to exponential
decrease with the squared extrinsic disorder parameter, where low disordered
systems give rise to larger probabilities when state-of-art quantum dots are
considered. The optimal regions to position quantum dots in the W1 waveguide
are also discussed. These theoretical results are fundamental interesting and
connect to recent experimental works on photonic crystal slab waveguides in the
slow-light regime." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224202 2017-01-31  "['Vasco', 'Hughes']"
1702.00049 "Monte Carlo particle transport in random media: the effects of mixing
  statistics" cond-mat.stat-mech "Particle transport in random media obeying a given mixing statistics is key
in several applications in nuclear reactor physics and more generally in
diffusion phenomena emerging in optics and life sciences. Exact solutions for
the ensemble-averaged physical observables are hardly available, and several
approximate models have been thus developed, providing a compromise between the
accurate treatment of the disorder-induced spatial correlations and the
computational time. In order to validate these models, it is mandatory to
resort to reference solutions in benchmark configurations, typically obtained
by explicitly generating by Monte Carlo methods several realizations of random
media, simulating particle transport in each realization, and finally taking
the ensemble averages for the quantities of interest. In this context, intense
research efforts have been devoted to Poisson (Markov) mixing statistics, where
benchmark solutions have been derived for transport in one-dimensional
geometries. In a recent work, we have generalized these solutions to two and
three-dimensional configurations, and shown how dimension affects the
simulation results. In this paper we will examine the impact of mixing
statistics: to this aim, we will compare the reflection and transmission
probabilities, as well as the particle flux, for three-dimensional random media
obtained by resorting to Poisson, Voronoi and Box stochastic tessellations. For
each tessellation, we will furthermore discuss the effects of varying the
fragmentation of the stochastic geometry, the material compositions, and the
cross sections of the transported particles." 10.1016/j.jqsrt.2017.04.006 2017-01-31  "['Larmier', 'Zoia', 'Malvagi', 'Dumonteil', 'Mazzolo']"
1702.00272 "Generic Dynamical Phase Transition in One-Dimensional Bulk-Driven
  Lattice Gases with Exclusion" "cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.MP" "Dynamical phase transitions are crucial features of the fluctuations of
statistical systems, corresponding to boundaries between qualitatively
different mechanisms of maintaining unlikely values of dynamical observables
over long periods of time. They manifest themselves in the form of
non-analyticities in the large deviation function of those observables. In this
paper, we look at bulk-driven exclusion processes with open boundaries. It is
known that the standard asymmetric simple exclusion process exhibits a
dynamical phase transition in the large deviations of the current of particles
flowing through it. That phase transition has been described thanks to specific
calculation methods relying on the model being exactly solvable, but more
general methods have also been used to describe the extreme large deviations of
that current, far from the phase transition. We extend those methods to a large
class of models based on the ASEP, where we add arbitrary spatial
inhomogeneities in the rates and short-range potentials between the particles.
We show that, as for the regular ASEP, the large deviation function of the
current scales differently with the size of the system if one considers very
high or very low currents, pointing to the existence of a dynamical phase
transition between those two regimes: high current large deviations are
extensive in the system size, and the typical states associated to them are
Coulomb gases, which are correlated ; low current large deviations do not
depend on the system size, and the typical states associated to them are
anti-shocks, consistently with a hydrodynamic behaviour. Finally, we illustrate
our results numerically on a simple example, and we interpret the transition in
terms of the current pushing beyond its maximal hydrodynamic value, as well as
relate it to the appearance of Tracy-Widom distributions in the relaxation
statistics of such models." 10.1088/1751-8121/aa7175 2017-02-01 2017-05-31 ['Lazarescu']
1702.00287 "Targeting pure quantum states by strong noncommutative dissipation" "quant-ph cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.MP" "We propose a solution to the problem of realizing a predefined and arbitrary
pure quantum state, based on the simultaneous presence of coherent and
dissipative dynamics, noncommuting on the target state and in the limit of
strong dissipation. More precisely, we obtain a necessary and sufficient
criterion whereby the nonequilibrium steady state (NESS) of an open quantum
system described by a Lindblad master equation approaches a target pure state
in the Zeno regime, i.e., for infinitely large dissipative coupling. We also
provide an explicit formula for the characteristic dissipative strength beyond
which the purity of the NESS becomes effective, thus paving the way to an
experimental implementation of our criterion. For an illustration, we deal with
targeting a Bell state, an arbitrary pure state of $N$ qubits, and a spin-helix
state of $N$ qubits." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052131 2017-02-01 2017-06-01 "['Popkov', 'Presilla', 'Schmidt']"
1702.00341 "Anisotropic blockade using pendular Rydberg butterfly molecules" "physics.atom-ph cond-mat.quant-gas quant-ph" "We propose an experiment to demonstrate a novel blockade mechanism caused by
long-range anisotropic interactions in an ultracold dipolar gas composed of the
recently observed ""butterfly"" Rydberg molecules. At the blockade radius, the
strong intermolecular interaction between two adjacent molecules shifts their
molecular states out of resonance with the photoassociation laser, preventing
their simultaneous excitation. When the molecules are prepared in a
quasi-one-dimensional (Q1D) trap, the interaction's strength can be tuned via a
weak external field. The molecular density thus depends strongly on the angle
between the trap axis and the field. The available Rydberg and molecular states
provide a wide range of tunability." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052708 2017-02-01 2017-05-09 "['Eiles', 'Lee', 'Perez-Rios', 'Greene']"
1702.00706 "The Jain-2/5 parent Hamiltonian: structure of zero modes, dominance
  patterns, and zero mode generators" "cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "We analyze general zero mode properties of the parent Hamiltonian of the
unprojected Jain-2/5 state. We characterize the zero mode condition associated
to this Hamiltonian via projection onto a four-dimensional two-particle
subspace for given pair angular momentum, for the disk and similarly for the
spherical geometry. Earlier numerical claims in the literature about ground
state uniqueness on the sphere are substantiated on analytic grounds, and
related results are derived. Preference is given to second quantized methods,
where zero mode properties are derived not from given analytic wave functions,
but from a ""lattice"" Hamiltonian and associated zero mode conditions. This
method reveals new insights into the guiding-center structure of the
unprojected Jain-2/5 state, in particular a system of dominance patterns
following a ""generalized Pauli principle"", which establishes a complete
one-to-one correspondence with the edge mode counting. We also identify
one-body operators that function as generators of zero modes." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195169 2017-02-02  "['Chen', 'Bandyopadhyay', 'Seidel']"
1702.00869 "3-Wave Mixing Josephson Dipole Element" "cond-mat.supr-con quant-ph" "Parametric conversion and amplification based on three-wave mixing are
powerful primitives for efficient quantum operations. For superconducting
qubits, such operations can be realized with a quadrupole Josephson junction
element, the Josephson Ring Modulator (JRM), which behaves as a loss-less
three-wave mixer. However, combining multiple quadrupole elements is a
difficult task so it would be advantageous to have a pure three-wave dipole
element that could be tessellated for increased power handling and/or
information throughput. Here, we present a dipole circuit element with
third-order nonlinearity, which implements three-wave mixing. Experimental
results for a non-degenerate amplifier based on the proposed pure third-order
nonlinearity are reported." 10.1063/1.4984142 2017-02-02 2017-05-31 "['Frattini', 'Vool', 'Shankar', 'Narla', 'Sliwa', 'Devoret']"
1702.01274 "Superradiant phase transition in the ultrastrong coupling regime of the
  two-photon Dicke model" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "The controllability of current quantum technologies allows to implement
spin-boson models where two-photon couplings are the dominating terms of
light-matter interaction. In this case, when the coupling strength becomes
comparable with the characteristic frequencies, a spectral collapse can take
place, i.e. the discrete system spectrum can collapse into a continuous band.
Here, we analyze the thermodynamic limit of the two-photon Dicke model, which
describes the interaction of an ensemble of qubits with a single bosonic mode.
We find that there exists a parameter regime where two-photon interactions
induce a superradiant phase transition, before the spectral collapse occurs.
Furthermore, we extend the mean-field analysis by considering second-order
quantum fluctuations terms, in order to analyze the low-energy spectrum and
compare the critical behavior with the one-photon case." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053854 2017-02-04 2017-02-16 "['Garbe', 'Egusquiza', 'Solano', 'Ciuti', 'Coudreau', 'Milman', 'Felicetti']"
1702.01598 "Holographic encoding of universality in corner spectra" cond-mat.str-el "In numerical simulations of classical and quantum lattice systems, 2d corner
transfer matrices (CTMs) and 3d corner tensors (CTs) are a useful tool to
compute approximate contractions of infinite-size tensor networks. In this
paper we show how the numerical CTMs and CTs can be used, {\it additionally\/},
to extract universal information from their spectra. We provide examples of
this for classical and quantum systems, in 1d, 2d and 3d. Our results provide,
in particular, practical evidence for a wide variety of models of the
correspondence between $d$-dimensional quantum and $(d+1)$-dimensional
classical spin systems. We show also how corner properties can be used to
pinpoint quantum phase transitions, topological or not, without the need for
observables. Moreover, for a chiral topological PEPS we show by examples that
corner tensors can be used to extract the entanglement spectrum of half a
system, with the expected symmetries of the $SU(2)_k$ Wess-Zumino-Witten model
describing its gapless edge for $k=1,2$. We also review the theory behind the
quantum-classical correspondence for spin systems, and provide a new numerical
scheme for quantum state renormalization in 2d using CTs. Our results show that
bulk information of a lattice system is encoded holographically in
efficiently-computable properties of its corners." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195170 2017-02-06  "['Huang', 'Wei', 'Orus']"
1702.01918 "Josephson effect in a multi-orbital model for Sr$_{2}$RuO$_{4}$" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mes-hall" "We study Josephson current between s-wave/spin-triplet superconductor
junctions by taking into account details of band structures in
Sr$_{2}$RuO$_{4}$ such as three conduction bands, spin-orbit interaction in the
bulk and that at the interface. We assume five superconducting order parameters
in Sr$_{2}$RuO$_{4}$: a chiral p-wave symmetry and four helical p-wave
symmetries. We calculate current-phase relationship $I(\varphi)$ in these
junctions, where $\varphi$ is the macroscopic phase difference between two
superconductors. The results for a chiral p-wave pairing symmetry show that
$\cos(\varphi)$ term appears in the current-phase relation due to time-reversal
symmetry (TRS) breaking. On the other hand, $\cos(\varphi)$ term is absent in
the helical pairing states which preserve the TRS. We also study the dependence
of maximum Josephson current $I_c$ on an external magnetic flux $\Phi$ in a
corner junction. The calculated results of $I_c(\Phi)$ show a relation
$I_{c}(\Phi) \neq I_{c}(-\Phi)$ in a chiral state and
$I_{c}(\Phi)=I_{c}(-\Phi)$ in a helical state. We calculate $I_c(\Phi)$ in a
corner and a symmetric SQUIDs geometry. In a symmetric SQUID geometry, the
relation $I_{c}(\Phi)=I_{c}(-\Phi)$ is satisfied for all the pairing states and
it is impossible to distinguish chiral state from helical one. On the other
hand, results for a corner SQUID always show $I_{c}(\Phi) \neq I_{c}(-\Phi)$
and $I_{c}(\Phi)=I_{c}(-\Phi)$ for a chiral and a helical states, respectively.
Experimental tests of these relations in a corner junctions and SQUIDs may
serve as a tool for unambiguous determination of the pairing symmetry in
Sr$_{2}$RuO$_{4}$." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174518 2017-02-07 2017-02-23 "['Kawai', 'Yada', 'Tanaka', 'Asano', 'Golubov', 'Kashiwaya']"
1702.02041 "Two-body problem for two-dimensional electrons in Bernervig-Hughes-Zhang
  model" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.str-el" "We study the two-body problem for two-dimensional electron systems in a
symmetrized Bernevig-Hughes-Zhang model which is widely used to describe
topological and conventional insulators. The main result is that two
interacting electrons can form bound states with the energy in the gap of the
band spectrum. The pairing mechanism can be interpreted as the formation of a
negative reduced effective mass of two electrons. The problem is complicated
because the relative motion of the electrons is coupled to the center-of-mass
motion. We consider the case of zero total momentum. Detail calculations are
carried out for the repulsive interaction potential of steplike form. The
states are classified according to their spin structure and two-particle basis
functions that form a given bound state. We analyze the spectra and electronic
structure of the bound states in the case of both topological and trivial
phases and especially focus on effects originating from the band inversion and
the coupling of the electron and hole bands. In the trivial phase and the
topological phase with the large coupling parameter $a$, the bound state
spectra are qualitatively similar. However, when $a$ is less a certain value,
the situation changes dramatically. In the topological phase, new states arise
with a higher binding energy at lower interaction potential, which evidences
that the band inversion can favor pairing the electrons." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.085417 2017-02-07 2017-06-03 ['Sablikov']
1702.02071 "Contact-less characterizations of encapsulated graphene p-n junctions" cond-mat.mes-hall "Accessing intrinsic properties of a graphene device can be hindered by the
influence of contact electrodes. Here, we capacitively couple graphene devices
to superconducting resonant circuits and observe clear changes in the
resonance- frequency and -widths originating from the internal charge dynamics
of graphene. This allows us to extract the density of states and charge
relaxation resistance in graphene p-n junctions without the need of electrical
contacts. The presented characterizations pave a fast, sensitive and
non-invasive measurement of graphene nanocircuits." 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.7.054015 2017-02-07  "['Ranjan', 'Zihlmann', 'Makk', 'Watanabe', 'Taniguchi', 'Schönenberger']"
1702.02145 "Structure--property relationships of cell clusters in biotissues: 2D
  analysis" cond-mat.soft "To insight the relationships between the self-organizing structures of cells,
such as the cell clusters, and the properties of biotissues is helpful in
revealing the function and designing biomaterial. Traditional random foam model
neglects several important details of the frameworks of cell clusters, in this
study we use a more complete model, cell adhesion model, to investigate the
mechanical and morphological properties of the two-dimensional (2D) dry foams
composed by cells. Supposing these structures are formed due to adhesion
between cells, the equilibrium formations result from the minimum of the free
energy. The equilibrium shape equations for high symmetrical structures without
the volume constraint are derived, and the analytical results of the
corresponding mechanical parameters, such as the Young's modulus, bulk modulus
and failure strength, are obtained. Numerical simulation method is applied to
study the complex shapes with the volume constraint and several stable
multicellular structures are obtained. Symmetry-breaking due to the volume
change is founded and typical periodic shapes and the corresponding phase
transformations are explored. Our study provides a potential method to connect
the microstructure with the macro-mechanical parameters of biotissues. The
results also are helpful to understand the physical mechanism of how the
structures of biotissues are formed." 10.1039/C7CP00007C 2017-02-07  "['Zhou', 'Zhang', 'Xia', 'Liu', 'Zhang']"
1702.02246 "Geometric correlations mitigate the extreme vulnerability of multiplex
  networks against targeted attacks" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.dis-nn cs.SI" "We show that real multiplex networks are unexpectedly robust against targeted
attacks on high degree nodes, and that hidden interlayer geometric correlations
predict this robustness. Without geometric correlations, multiplexes exhibit an
abrupt breakdown of mutual connectivity, even with interlayer degree
correlations. With geometric correlations, we instead observe a multistep
cascading process leading into a continuous transition, which apparently
becomes fully continuous in the thermodynamic limit. Our results are important
for the design of efficient protection strategies and of robust interacting
networks in many domains." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.218301 2017-02-07 2017-04-05 "['Kleineberg', 'Buzna', 'Papadopoulos', 'Boguñá', 'Serrano']"
1702.02248 "Annihilation of Domain Walls in a Ferromagnetic Wire" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study the annihilation of topological solitons in the simplest setting: a
one-dimensional ferromagnet with an easy axis. We develop an effective theory
of the annihilation process in terms of four collective coordinates: two zero
modes of the translational and rotational symmetries $Z$ and $\Phi$,
representing the average position and azimuthal angle of the two solitons, and
two conserved momenta $\zeta$ and $\varphi$, representing the relative distance
and twist. Comparison with micromagnetic simulations shows that our approach
captures well the essential physics of the process." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.180408 2017-02-07  "['Ghosh', 'Huang', 'Tchernyshyov']"
1702.02292 "Quantum oscillation studies of topological semimetal candidate ZrGeM
  (M=S, Se, Te)" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The WHM - type materials (W=Zr/Hf/La, H=Si/Ge/Sn/Sb, M=O/S/Se/Te) have been
predicted to be a large pool of topological materials. These materials allow
for fine tuning of spin-orbit coupling, lattice constant and structural
dimensionality for various combinations of W, H and M elements, thus providing
an excellent platform to study how these parameters' tuning affect topological
semimetal state. In this work, we report the high field quantum oscillation
studies on ZrGeM (M=S, Se, and Te). We have found the first experimental
evidence for their theoretically-predicted topological semimetal states. From
the angular dependence of quantum oscillation frequency, we have also studied
the Fermi surface topologies of these materials. Moreover, we have compared
Dirac electron behavior between the ZrGeM and ZrSiM systems, which reveals deep
insights to the tuning of Dirac state by spin-orbit coupling and lattice
constants in the WHM systems." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205134 2017-02-08 2017-02-25 "['Hu', 'Zhu', 'Graf', 'Tang', 'Liu', 'Mao']"
1702.02579 "Scanning Tunneling Potentiometry, Charge Transport and Landauer's
  Resistivity Dipole from the Quantum to the Classical Transport Regime" cond-mat.mes-hall "Using the non-equilibrium Keldysh formalism, we investigate the spatial
relation between the electro-chemical potential measured in scanning tunneling
spectroscopy, and local current patterns over the entire range from the quantum
to the classical transport regime. These quantities show similar spatial
patterns near the quantum limit, but are related by Ohm's law only in the
classical regime. We demonstrate that defects induce a Landauer residual
resistivity dipole in the electro-chemical potential with the concomitant
spatial current pattern representing the field lines of the dipole." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195162 2017-02-08  ['Morr']
1702.02745 "A theoretical framework for steady-state rheometry in generic flow
  conditions" "physics.flu-dyn cond-mat.soft" "We introduce a general representation of the stress tensor for incompressible
fluids in terms of its components on a tensorial basis adapted to the local
flow conditions, which include extensional flows, simple shear flows, and any
type of mixed flows. Such a basis is determined solely by the symmetric part of
the velocity gradient and allows for a straightforward interpretation of the
non-Newtonian response in any flow geometry. In steady flow conditions, the
material response functions that represent the components of the stress on the
adapted basis generalize and complete the classical set of viscometric
functions used to characterize the response in simple shear flows. Such a
general representation is effective in coherently organizing and interpreting
rheological data from laboratory measurements and computational studies in
non-viscometric steady flows of great importance for practical applications.
The decomposition of the stress in terms with clearly distinct roles is also
useful in developing constitutive models."  2017-02-09 2017-06-02 "['Giusteri', 'Seto']"
1702.02757 "Nonexponential spin decay in a quantum kinetic description of the
  D'yakonov-Perel' mechanism mediated by impurity scattering" cond-mat.mes-hall "The electron spin dynamics in an optically excited narrow quantum well is
studied, where the electron spins precess in a k-dependent magnetic field while
the electrons scatter at localized impurities. For the resulting spin decay,
which is commonly known as the D'yakonov-Perel' mechansim, analytical
expressions in the strong- and weak-scattering limits are available. It is
found by the numerical solution of quantum kinetic equations in a broad range
of parameters that, in situations that are typically relevant for ultrafast
optical experiments, the dynamics of the total spin polarization significantly
deviates from the pertinent analytical results. This is attributed to the broad
spectral width of the optically excited spin-polarized electron distribution,
which gives rise to a spin dephasing due to inhomogeneous broadening.
Furthermore, it is found that the decay of the spin polarization need not be
exponential. The notion of a spin decay time becomes ambiguous and different
definitions of spin decay times can lead to different outcomes. The long-term
dynamics of the decay of the spin polarization is even dominated by an
algebraically decaying component. These findings highlight the importance of
the effects of the broad spectral distribution of optically excited carriers in
ultrashort magneto-optical experiments." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195313 2017-02-09 2017-05-29 "['Cosacchi', 'Cygorek', 'Ungar', 'Axt']"
1702.02772 "Thermometry of a deeply degenerate Fermi gas with a Bose-Einstein
  condensate" cond-mat.quant-gas "We measure the temperature of a deeply degenerate Fermi gas, by using a
weakly interacting sample of heavier bosonic atoms as a probe. This thermometry
method relies on the thermalization between the two species and on the
determination of the condensate fraction of the bosons. In our experimental
implementation, a small sample of 41K atoms serves as the thermometer for a 6Li
Fermi sea. We investigate the evaporative cooling of a 6Li spin mixture in a
single-beam optical dipole trap and observe how the condensate fraction of the
thermometry atoms depends on the final trap depth. From the condensate
fraction, the temperature can be readily extracted. We show that the lowest
temperature of 6.3(5)% of the Fermi temperature is obtained, when the
decreasing trap depth closely approaches the Fermi energy. To understand the
systematic effects that may in uence the results, we carefully investigate the
role of the number of bosons and the thermalization dynamics between the two
species. Our thermometry approach provides a conceptually simple, accurate, and
general way to measure the temperature of deeply degenerate Fermi gases. Since
the method is independent of the specific interaction conditions within the
Fermi gas, it applies to both weakly and strongly interacting Fermi gases." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053627 2017-02-09 2017-05-22 "['Lous', 'Fritsche', 'Jag', 'Huang', 'Grimm']"
1702.02935 "Quasiparticle energy in a strongly interacting homogeneous Bose-Einstein
  condensate" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech physics.atom-ph quant-ph" "Using two-photon Bragg spectroscopy, we study the energy of particle-like
excitations in a strongly interacting homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate, and
observe dramatic deviations from Bogoliubov theory. In particular, at large
scattering length $a$ the shift of the excitation resonance from the
free-particle energy changes sign from positive to negative. For an excitation
with wavenumber $q$, this sign change occurs at $a \approx 4/(\pi q)$, in
agreement with the Feynman energy relation and the static structure factor
expressed in terms of the two-body contact. For $a \gtrsim 3/q$ we also see a
breakdown of this theory, and better agreement with calculations based on the
Wilson operator product expansion. Neither theory explains our observations
across all interaction regimes, inviting further theoretical efforts." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.210401 2017-02-09  "['Lopes', 'Eigen', 'Barker', 'Viebahn', 'Robert-de-Saint-Vincent', 'Navon', 'Hadzibabic', 'Smith']"
1702.02950 "Second-order chiral kinetic theory: Chiral magnetic and pseudomagnetic
  waves" "cond-mat.mes-hall hep-ph hep-th" "The consistent chiral kinetic theory accurate to the second order in
electromagnetic and pseudoelectromagnetic fields is derived for a relativistic
matter with two Weyl fermions. By making use of such a framework, the
properties of longitudinal collective excitations, which include both chiral
magnetic and chiral pseudomagnetic waves, are studied. It is shown that the
proper treatment of dynamical electromagnetism transforms these gapless waves
into chiral (pseudo)magnetic plasmons, whose Langmuir (plasma) gap receives
corrections quadratic in both magnetic and pseudomagnetic fields." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205141 2017-02-09 2017-05-26 "['Gorbar', 'Miransky', 'Shovkovy', 'Sukhachov']"
1702.03110 "Dynamical Coulomb blockade of thermal transport" cond-mat.mes-hall "The role of energy exchange between a quantum system and its environment is
investigated from the perspective of the Onsager conductance matrix. We
consider the thermoelectric linear transport of an interacting quantum dot
coupled to two terminals under the influence of an electrical potential and a
thermal bias. We implement in our model the effect of coupling to
electromagnetic environmental modes created by nearby electrons within the
P(E)-theory of dynamical Coulomb blockade. Our findings relate the lack of some
symmetries among the Onsager matrix coefficients with an enhancement of the
efficiency at maximum power and the occurrence of the heat rectification
phenomenon." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.235404 2017-02-10  "['Rosselló', 'López', 'Sánchez']"
1702.03238 "Coulomb drag and depinning in bilinear Josephson junction arrays" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "Coulomb drag and depinning are electronic transport phenomena that occur in
low-dimensional nanostructures. Recently, both phenomena have been reported in
bilinear Josephson junction arrays. These devices provide a unique opportunity
to study the interplay of Coulomb drag and depinning in a system where all
relevant parameters can be controlled experimentally. We explain the Coulomb
drag and depinning characteristics in the I-V curve of the bilinear Josephson
junction array by adopting a quasicharge model which has previously proven
useful in describing threshold phenomena in linear Josephson junction arrays.
Simulations are performed for a range of coupling strengths, where numerically
obtained I-V curves match well with what has been previously observed
experimentally. Analytic expressions for the ratio between the active and
passive currents are derived from depinning arguments. Novel phenomena are
predicted at voltages higher than those for which experimental results have
been reported to date."  2017-02-06 2017-06-01 "['Wilkinson', 'Vogt', 'Cole']"
1702.03265 "Fate of Weyl semimetals in the presence of incommensurate potentials" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mes-hall" "We investigate the effect of the incommensurate potential on Weyl semimetal,
which is proposed to be realized in ultracold atomic systems trapped in
three-dimensional optical lattices. For the system without the Fermi arc, we
find that the Weyl points are robust against the incommensurate potential and
the system enters into a metallic phase only when the incommensurate potential
strength exceeds a critical value. We unveil the trastition by analysing the
properties of wave functions and the density of states as a function of the
incommensurate potential strength. We also study the system with Fermi arcs and
find the Fermi arcs are sensitive against the incommensurate potential and can
be destoryed by a weak incommensurate potential." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053634 2017-02-10 2017-02-22 "['Wang', 'Chen']"
1702.03822 "Direct and Simultaneous Observation of Ultrafast Electron and Hole
  Dynamics in Germanium" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.chem-ph" "Understanding excited carrier dynamics in semiconductors is crucial for the
development of photovoltaics and efficient photonic devices. However,
overlapping spectral features in optical/NIR pump-probe spectroscopy often
render assignments of separate electron and hole carrier dynamics ambiguous.
Here, ultrafast electron and hole dynamics in germanium nanocrystalline thin
films are directly and simultaneously observed by attosecond transient
absorption spectroscopy (ATAS) in the extreme ultraviolet at the germanium
M_{4,5}-edge (~30 eV). We decompose the ATAS spectra into contributions of
electronic state blocking and photo-induced band shifts at a carrier density of
8*10^{20}cm^{-3}. Separate electron and hole relaxation times are observed as a
function of hot carrier energies. A first order electron and hole decay of ~1
ps suggests a Shockley-Read-Hall recombination mechanism. The simultaneous
observation of electrons and holes with ATAS paves the way for investigating
few to sub-femtosecond dynamics of both holes and electrons in complex
semiconductor materials and across junctions." 10.1038/ncomms15734 2017-02-09  "['Zürch', 'Chang', 'Borja', 'Kraus', 'Cushing', 'Gandman', 'Kaplan', 'Oh', 'Prell', 'Prendergast', 'Pemmaraju', 'Neumark', 'Leone']"
1702.04104 "Reentrant phases in electron-doped $\text{EuFe}_2\text{As}_2$: spin
  glass and superconductivity" cond-mat.supr-con "We report evidence for a reentrant spin glass phase in electron-doped
$\text{EuFe}_2\text{As}_2$ single crystals and first traces of the
superconductivity re-entrance in optics. In the close-to-optimal doped
$\text{Eu}(\text{Fe}_{0.91}\text{Ir}_{0.09})_2\text{As}_2$ and
$\text{Eu}(\text{Fe}_{0.93}\text{Rh}_{0.07})_2\text{As}_2$ samples two magnetic
transitions are observed below the superconducting critical temperature $T_c
\approx 21$~K: the canted $A$-type antiferromagnetic order of the
$\text{Eu}^{2+}$ ions sets in around $17\,\text{K}$; the spin glass behavior
occurs another $2\,\text{K}$ lower in temperature. In addition, strong evidence
for an additional transition is found far below the spin glass temperature. Our
extensive optical and magnetic investigations provide new insight into the
interplay of local magnetism and superconductivity in these systems and
elucidate the effect of the spin-glass phase on the reentrant superconducting
state." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174522 2017-02-14  "['Baumgartner', 'Neubauer', 'Zapf', 'Pronin', 'Jiao', 'Cao', 'Dressel']"
1702.04148 "The Power of Perturbation Theory" "hep-th cond-mat.stat-mech hep-ph math-ph math.MP quant-ph" "We study quantum mechanical systems with a discrete spectrum. We show that
the asymptotic series associated to certain paths of steepest-descent
(Lefschetz thimbles) are Borel resummable to the full result. Using a
geometrical approach based on the Picard-Lefschetz theory we characterize the
conditions under which perturbative expansions lead to exact results. Even when
such conditions are not met, we explain how to define a different perturbative
expansion that reproduces the full answer without the need of transseries, i.e.
non-perturbative effects, such as real (or complex) instantons. Applications to
several quantum mechanical systems are presented." 10.1007/JHEP05(2017)056 2017-02-14 2017-05-09 "['Serone', 'Spada', 'Villadoro']"
1702.04285 "Block product density matrix embedding theory for strongly correlated
  spin systems" cond-mat.str-el "Density matrix embedding theory (DMET) is a relatively new technique for the
calculation of strongly correlated systems. Recently, block product DMET
(BPDMET) was introduced for the study of spin systems such as the
antiferromagnetic $J_1 - J_2$ model on the square lattice. In this paper, we
extend the variational Ansatz of BPDMET using spin-state optimization, yielding
improved results. We apply the same techniques to the Kitaev-Heisenberg model
on the honeycomb lattice, comparing the results when using several types of
clusters. Energy profiles and correlation functions are investigated. A
diagonalization in the tangent space of the variational approach yields
information on the excited states and the corresponding spectral functions." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195127 2017-02-14 2017-05-29 "['Gunst', 'Wouters', 'De Baerdemacker', 'Van Neck']"
1702.04574 "Single-axis dependent structural and multiferroic properties of
  orthorhombic RMnO$_3$ (R = Gd - Lu)" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Controlling material properties by modulating the crystalline structure has
been attempted using various techniques, e.g., hydrostatic pressure, chemical
pressure, and epitaxy. These techniques succeed to improve properties and
achieve desired functionalities by changing the unit cell in all dimensions. In
order to obtain a more detailed understanding on the relation between the
crystal lattice and material properties, it is desirable to investigate the
influence of a smaller number of parameters. Here, we utilize the combination
of chemical pressure and epitaxy to modify a single lattice parameter of the
multiferroic orthorhombic RMnO$_3$ (R = rare-earth, o-RMnO$_3$) system. By
growing a series of o-RMnO$_3$ (R = Gd - Lu) films coherently on (010)-oriented
YAlO$_3$ substrates, the influence of chemical pressure is reflected only along
the $b$-axis. Thus, a series of o-RMnO$_3$ with $a$ ~ 5.18 {\AA}, 5.77 {\AA} <
$b$ < 5.98 {\AA}, and $c$ ~ 7.37 {\AA} were obtained. Raman spectra analysis
reveals that the change of the $b$-axis parameter induces a shift of the oxygen
in the nominally ""fixed"" $ca$-plane. Their ferroelectric ground state is
independent on the $b$-axis parameter showing polarization of ~ 1 $\mu$C
cm$^{-2}$ along the $a$-axis for the above-mentioned range, except for $b$ ~
5.94 {\AA} which corresponds to TbMnO$_3$ showing ~ 2 $\mu$C cm$^{-2}$. This
result implies that multiferroic order of o-RMnO$_3$ is almost robust against
the $b$-axis parameter provided that the dimension of the $ca$-plane is fixed
to 7.37 {\AA} $\times$ 5.18 {\AA}." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184105 2017-02-15 2017-05-28 "['Shimamoto', 'Mukherjee', 'Bingham', 'Suszka', 'Lippert', 'Niedermayer', 'Schneider']"
1702.04735 "Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov state to topological superfluidity
  transition in bilayer spin-orbit coupled degenerate Fermi gas" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.atom-ph quant-ph" "Recently a scheme has been proposed for generating the 2D Rashba-type
spin-orbit coupling (SOC) for ultracold atomic bosons in a bilayer geometry
[S.-W. Su et al, Phys. Rev. A \textbf{93}, 053630 (2016)]. Here we investigate
the superfluidity properties of a degenerate Fermi gas affected by the SOC in
such a bilayer system. We demonstrate that a Fulde-Ferrell-Larkin-Ovchinnikov
(FFLO) state appears in the regime of small to moderate atom-light coupling. In
contrast to the ordinary SOC, the FFLO state emerges in the bilayer system
without adding any external fields or spin polarization. As the atom-light
coupling increases, the system can transit from the FFLO state to a topological
superfluid state. These findings are also confirmed by the BdG simulations with
a weak harmonic trap added." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053628 2017-02-15 2017-05-30 "['Wang', 'Sun', 'Liu', 'Juzeliūnas', 'Ji']"
1702.04853 "Bjerrum Pairs in Ionic Solutions: a Poisson-Boltzmann Approach" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.stat-mech physics.bio-ph physics.chem-ph" "Ionic solutions are often regarded as fully dissociated ions dispersed in a
polar solvent. While this picture holds for dilute solutions, at higher ionic
concentrations, oppositely charged ions can associate into dimers, referred to
as Bjerrum pairs. We consider the formation of such pairs within the nonlinear
Poisson-Boltzmann framework, and investigate their effects on bulk and
interfacial properties of electrolytes. Our findings show that pairs can reduce
the magnitude of the dielectric decrement of ionic solutions as the ionic
concentration increases. We describe the effect of pairs on the Debye screening
length, and relate our results to recent surface-force experiments.
Furthermore, we show that Bjerrum pairs reduce the ionic concentration in bulk
electrolyte and at the proximity of charged surfaces, while they enhance the
attraction between oppositely charged surfaces." 10.1063/1.4982885 2017-02-15  "['Adar', 'Markovich', 'Andelman']"
1702.05011 "Extended spin model in atomistic simulations of alloys" "physics.comp-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "An extended atomistic spin model allowing for studies of the finite
temperature magnetic properties of alloys is proposed. The model is obtained by
extending the Heisenberg Hamiltonian via a parameterization from a first
principles basis, interpolating from both the low temperature ferromagnetic and
the high temperature paramagnetic reference states. This allows us to treat
magnetic systems with varying degree of itinerant character within the model.
Satisfactory agreement with both previous theoretical studies and experiments
are obtained in terms of Curie temperatures and paramagnetic properties. The
proposed model is not restricted to elements but is also applied to binary
alloys, such as the technologically important material Permalloy, where
significant differences in the finite magnetic properties of Fe and Ni magnetic
moments are found. The proposed model strives to find the right compromise
between accuracy and computational feasibility for accurate modeling, even for
complex magnetic alloys and compounds." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184432 2017-02-16  "['Pan', 'Chico', 'Delin', 'Bergman', 'Bergqvist']"
1702.05046 "Transport signatures of topological superconductivity in a
  proximity-coupled nanowire" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "We study the conductance of a junction between the normal and superconducting
segments of a nanowire, both of which are subjected to spin-orbit coupling and
an external magnetic field. We directly compare the transport properties of the
nanowire assuming two different models for the superconducting segment: one
where we put superconductivity by hand into the wire, and one where
superconductivity is induced through a tunneling junction with a bulk s-wave
superconductor. While these two models are equivalent at low energies and at
weak coupling between the nanowire and the superconductor, we show that there
are several interesting qualitative differences away from these two limits. In
particular, the tunneling model introduces an additional conductance peak at
the energy corresponding to the bulk gap of the parent superconductor. By
employing a combination of analytical methods at zero temperature and numerical
methods at finite temperature, we show that the tunneling model of the
proximity effect reproduces many more of the qualitative features that are seen
experimentally in such a nanowire system." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205439 2017-02-16 2017-05-31 "['Reeg', 'Maslov']"
1702.05082 "Robust antiferromagnetic spin waves across the metal-insulator
  transition in hole-doped BaMn$_{2}$As$_{2}$" cond-mat.str-el "BaMn$_{2}$As$_{2}$ is an antiferromagnetic insulator where a metal-insulator
transition occurs with hole doping via the substitution of Ba with K. The
metal-insulator transition causes only a small suppression of the N\'eel
temperature ($T_\mathrm{N}$) and the ordered moment, suggesting that doped
holes interact weakly with the Mn spin system. Powder inelastic neutron
scattering measurements were performed on three different powder samples of
Ba$_{1-x}$K$_{x}$Mn$_{2}$As$_{2}$ with $x=$0, 0.125 and 0.25 to study the
effect of hole doping and metallization on the spin dynamics of these
compounds. We compare the neutron intensities to a linear spin wave theory
approximation to the $J_{1}-J_{2}-J_{c}$ Heisenberg model. Hole doping is found
to introduce only minor modifications to the exchange energies and spin gap.
The changes observed in the exchange constants are consistent with the small
drop of $T_\mathrm{N}$ with doping." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224401 2017-02-16  "['Ramazanoglu', 'Sapkota', 'Pandey', 'Lamsal', 'Abernathy', 'Niedziela', 'Stone', 'Kreyssig', 'Goldman', 'Johnston', 'McQueeney']"
1702.05115 "Exotic Non-Abelian Topological Defects in Lattice Fractional Quantum
  Hall States" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.quant-gas quant-ph" "We investigate extrinsic wormhole-like defects that effectively increase the
genus of space in lattice versions of multi-component fractional quantum Hall
systems. Although the original band structure is distorted by these defects,
leading to localized midgap states, we find that a new lowest flat band
representing a higher genus system can be engineered by tuning local
single-particle potentials. Remarkably, once local many-body interactions in
this new band are switched on, we identify various Abelian and non-Abelian
fractional quantum Hall states, whose ground-state degeneracy increases with
the number of defects, i.e., with the genus of space. This sensitivity of
topological degeneracy to defects provides a ""proof of concept"" demonstration
that genons, predicted by topological field theory as exotic non-Abelian
defects tied to a varying topology of space, do exist in realistic microscopic
models. Specifically, our results indicate that genons could be created in the
laboratory by combining the physics of artificial gauge fields in cold atom
systems with already existing holographic beam shaping methods for creating
wormhole-like defects."  2017-02-16 2017-05-28 "['Liu', 'Möller', 'Bergholtz']"
1702.05138 "Collective mode contributions to the Meissner effect: Fulde-Ferrell and
  pair-density wave superfluids" cond-mat.supr-con "In this paper we demonstrate the necessity of including the generally omitted
collective mode contributions in calculations of the Meissner effect for
non-uniform superconductors. We consider superconducting pairing with non-zero
center of mass momentum, as is relevant to high transition temperature
cuprates, cold atoms, and quantum chromodynamic superconductors. For the
concrete example of the Fulde-Ferrell phase we present a quantitative
calculation of the superfluid density, showing the collective mode
contributions are not only appreciable but that they derive from the amplitude
mode of the order parameter. This latter mode (related to the Higgs mode in a
charged system) is generally viewed as being invisible in conventional
superconductors. However, our analysis shows that it is extremely important in
pair-density wave type superconductors, where it destroys superfluidity well
before the mean-field order parameter vanishes." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.214501 2017-02-16  "['Boyack', 'Wu', 'Anderson', 'Levin']"
1702.05228 "Sub-diffusion and non-equilibrium probes of phases in
  Aubry-Andr\'e-Harper Model" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "We consider an open quantum system generalization of the well-known linear
Aubry-Andr\'e-Harper (AAH) model by putting it out-of-equilibrium with the aid
of two baths (at opposite ends) at unequal temperatures and chemical
potentials. Non-equilibrium steady state (NESS) properties are computed by a
fully exact non-equilibrium Green's function method (valid for any strength of
system-bath coupling). We find sub-diffusive scaling of NESS current with
system-size at the critical point. Below and above the critical point we
recover ballistic and localized NESS transport respectively. We show that the
NESS spatial particle density profile provides a potential experimental probe
of delocalized, localized and critical phases. This is of special importance in
light of recent experiments. We further show that various closed system
quantities such as wavefunction spread, dynamical susceptibility and current
auto-correlation functions which are often used to classify transport, show
hints of the anomalous transport at the critical point, but fail to capture the
sub-diffusive behaviour seen in the open system. Our findings are valid for
both the bosonic and fermionic versions."  2017-02-17 2017-06-04 "['Purkayastha', 'Sanyal', 'Dhar', 'Kulkarni']"
1702.05396 "Complex semiclassical analysis of the Loschmidt amplitude and dynamical
  quantum phase transitions" "cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "We propose a new computational method of the Loschmidt amplitude in a generic
spin system on the basis of the complex semiclassical analysis on the
spin-coherent state path integral. We demonstrate how the dynamical transitions
emerge in the time evolution of the Loschmidt amplitude for the infinite-range
transverse Ising model with a longitudinal field, exposed by a quantum quench
of the transverse field $\Gamma$ from $\infty$ or $0$. For both initial
conditions, we obtain the dynamical phase diagrams that show the presence or
absence of the dynamical transition in the plane of transverse field after a
quantum quench and the longitudinal field. The results of semiclassical
analysis are verified by numerical experiments. Experimental observation of our
findings on the dynamical transition is also discussed." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174305 2017-02-17 2017-05-31 "['Obuchi', 'Suzuki', 'Takahashi']"
1702.05604 "Feedback controlled heat transport in quantum devices: Theory and solid
  state experimental proposal" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.stat-mech" "A theory of feedback controlled heat transport in quantum systems is
presented. It is based on modelling heat engines as driven multipartite systems
subject to projective quantum measurements and measurement-conditioned unitary
evolutions. The theory unifies various results presented in the previous
literature. Feedback control breaks time reversal invariance. This in turn
results in the fluctuation relation not being obeyed. Its restoration occurs by
an appropriate accounting of the information gain and information use via
measurements and feedback. We further illustrate an experimental proposal for
the realisation of a Maxwell demon using superconducting circuits and single
photon on-chip calorimetry. A two level qubit acts as a trapdoor which,
conditioned on its state is coupled to either a hot resistor or a cold one. The
feedback mechanism alters the temperatures felt by the qubit and can result in
an effective inversion of temperature gradient, where heat flows from cold to
hot thanks to information gain and use" 10.1088/1367-2630/aa6acb 2017-02-18 2017-05-26 "['Campisi', 'Pekola', 'Fazio']"
1702.05751 "Tunable pseudogaps due to non-local coherent transport in voltage-biased
  three-terminal Josephson junctions" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "We investigate the proximity effect in junctions between $N=3$
superconductors under commensurate voltage bias. The bias is chosen to
highlight the role of transport processes that exchange multiple Cooper pairs
coherently between more than two superconductors. Such non-local processes can
be studied in the dc response, where local transport processes do not
contribute. We focus on the proximity-induced normal density of states that we
investigate in a wide parameter space. We reveal the presence of deep and
highly tunable pseudogaps and other rich structures. These are due to a static
proximity effect that is absent for $N=2$ and is sensitive to an emergent
superconducting phase associated to non-local coherent transport. In comparison
with results for $N=2$, we find similarities in the signature peaks of multiple
Andreev reflections. We discuss the effect of electron-hole decoherence and of
various types of junction asymmetries. Our predictions can be investigated
experimentally using tunneling spectroscopy." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205437 2017-02-19 2017-05-30 "['Padurariu', 'Jonckheere', 'Rech', 'Martin', 'Feinberg']"
1702.06346 "Local structure study of the orbital order/disorder transition in
  LaMnO$_3$" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We use a combination of neutron and X-ray total scattering measurements
together with pair distribution function (PDF) analysis to characterise the
variation in local structure across the orbital order--disorder transition in
LaMnO$_3$. Our experimental data are inconsistent with a conventional
order--disorder description of the transition, and reflect instead the
existence of a discontinuous change in local structure between ordered and
disordered states. Within the orbital-ordered regime, the neutron and X-ray
PDFs are best described by a local structure model with the same local orbital
arrangements as those observed in the average (long-range) crystal structure.
We show that a variety of meaningfully-different local orbital arrangement
models can give fits of comparable quality to the experimental PDFs collected
within the disordered regime; nevertheless, our data show a subtle but
consistent preference for the anisotropic Potts model proposed in \emph{Phys
Rev.\ B} {\bf 79}, 174106 (2009). The key implications of this model are
electronic and magnetic isotropy together with the loss of local inversion
symmetry at the Mn site. We conclude with a critical assessment of the
interpretation of PDF measurements when characterising local symmetry breaking
in functional materials." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174107 2017-02-21  "['Thygesen', 'Young', 'Beake', 'Romero', 'Connor', 'Proffen', 'Phillips', 'Tucker', 'Hayward', 'Keen', 'Goodwin']"
1702.06498 "First principles calculations of the interface properties of
  amorphous-Al2O3/MoS2 under non-strain and biaxial strain conditions" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Al2O3 is a potential dielectric material for metal-oxide-semiconductor (MOS)
devices. Al2O3 films deposited on semiconductors usually exhibit amorphous due
to lattice mismatch. Compared to two-dimensional graphene, MoS2 is a typical
semiconductor, therefore, it has more extensive application. The
amorphous-Al2O3/MoS2 (a-Al2O3/MoS2) interface has attracted people's attention
because of its unique properties. In this paper, the interface behaviors of
a-Al2O3/MoS2 under non-strain and biaxial strain are investigated by first
principles calculations based on density functional theory (DFT). First of all,
the generation process of a-Al2O3 sample is described, which is calculated by
molecular dynamics and geometric optimization. Then, we introduce the band
alignment method, and calculate band offset of a-Al2O3/MoS2 interface. It is
found that the valence band offset (VBO) and conduction band offset (CBO)
change with the number of MoS2 layers. The dependence of leakage current on the
band offset is also illustrated. At last, the band structure of monolayer MoS2
under biaxial strain is discussed. The biaxial strain is set in the range from
-6% to 6% with the interval of 2%. Impact of the biaxial strain on the band
alignment is investigated." 10.1063/1.4983815 2017-02-21  "['Shi', 'Li', 'Xiu', 'Liu', 'Zhang', 'Liu', 'Li', 'Dong']"
1702.06571 "Magnetic Properties of New Triangular Lattice Magnets
  A${_4}$B'B${_2}$O$_{12}$" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The geometrically frustrated two dimensional triangular lattice magnets
A${_4}$B'B${_2}$O$_{12}$ (A = Ba, Sr, La; B' = Co, Ni, Mn; B = W, Re) have been
studied by x-ray diffraction, AC and DC susceptibilities, powder neutron
diffraction, and specific heat measurements. The results reveal that (i) the
samples containing Co$^{2+}$ (effective spin-1/2) and Ni$^{2+}$ (spin-1) ions
with small spin numbers exhibit ferromagnetic (FM) ordering while the sample
containing Mn$^{2+}$ (spin-5/2) ions with a large spin number exhibits
antiferromagnetic (AFM) ordering. We ascribe these spin number manipulated
ground states to the competition between the AFM B'-O-O-B' and FM B'-O-B-O-B'
superexchange interactions; (ii) the chemical pressure introduced into the Co
containing samples through the replacement of different size ions on the A site
finely tunes the FM ordering temperature of the system. We attribute this
effect to the modification of the FM interaction strength induced by the change
of the O-B-O angle through chemical pressure." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174438 2017-02-21  "['Rawl', 'Lee', 'Choi', 'Li', 'Chen', 'Baumbach', 'Cruz', 'Ma', 'Zhou']"
1702.06701 "Magnonic crystals for data processing" cond-mat.mes-hall "Magnons - the quanta of spin waves - propagating in magnetic materials with
wavelengths at the nanometer-scale and carrying information in the form of an
angular momentum, can be used as data carriers in next-generation, nano-sized
low-loss information processing systems. In this respect, artificial magnetic
materials with properties periodically varied in space, known as magnonic
crystals, are especially promising for controlling and manipulating the magnon
currents. In this article, different approaches for the realization of static,
reconfigurable, and dynamic magnonic crystals are presented along with a
variety of novel wave phenomena discovered in these crystals. Special attention
is devoted to the utilization of magnonic crystals for processing of analog and
digital information." 10.1088/1361-6463/aa6a65 2017-02-22  "['Chumak', 'Serha', 'Hillebrands']"
1702.06778 "Finite-Size Effects in Non-Neutral Two-Dimensional Coulomb Fluids" cond-mat.stat-mech "Thermodynamic potential of a neutral two-dimensional (2D) Cou\-lomb fluid,
confined to a large domain with a smooth boundary, exhibits at any (inverse)
temperature $\beta$ a logarithmic finite-size correction term whose universal
prefactor depends only on the Euler number of the domain and the conformal
anomaly number $c=-1$. A minimal free boson conformal field theory, which is
equivalent to the 2D symmetric two-component plasma of elementary $\pm e$
charges at coupling constant $\Gamma=\beta e^2$, was studied in the past. It
was shown that creating a non-neutrality by spreading out a charge $Q e$ at
infinity modifies the anomaly number to $c(Q,\Gamma) = - 1 + 3\Gamma Q^2$.
Here, we study the effect of non-neutrality on the finite-size expansion of the
free energy for another Coulomb fluid, namely the 2D one-component plasma
(jellium) composed of identical pointlike $e$-charges in a homogeneous
background surface charge density. For the disk geometry of the confining
domain we find that the non-neutrality induces the same change of the anomaly
number in the finite-size expansion. We derive this result first at the
free-fermion coupling $\Gamma\equiv\beta e^2=2$ and then, by using a mapping of
the 2D one-component plasma onto an anticommuting field theory formulated on a
chain, for an arbitrary coupling constant." 10.1007/s10955-017-1808-9 2017-02-22  ['Šamaj']
1702.06919 "Universality of the SAT-UNSAT (jamming) threshold in non-convex
  continuous constraint satisfaction problems" cond-mat.dis-nn "Random constraint satisfaction problems (CSP) have been studied extensively
using statistical physics techniques. They provide a benchmark to study average
case scenarios instead of the worst case one. The interplay between statistical
physics of disordered systems and computer science has brought new light into
the realm of computational complexity theory, by introducing the notion of
clustering of solutions, related to replica symmetry breaking. However, the
class of problems in which clustering has been studied often involve discrete
degrees of freedom: standard random CSPs are random K-SAT (aka disordered Ising
models) or random coloring problems (aka disordered Potts models). In this work
we consider instead problems that involve continuous degrees of freedom. The
simplest prototype of these problems is the perceptron. Here we discuss in
detail the full phase diagram of the model. In the regions of parameter space
where the problem is non-convex, leading to multiple disconnected clusters of
solutions, the solution is critical at the SAT/UNSAT threshold and lies in the
same universality class of the jamming transition of soft spheres. We show how
the critical behavior at the satisfiability threshold emerges, and we compute
the critical exponents associated to the approach to the transition from both
the SAT and UNSAT phase. We conjecture that there is a large universality class
of non-convex continuous CSPs whose SAT-UNSAT threshold is described by the
same scaling solution." 10.21468/SciPostPhys.2.3.019 2017-02-22 2017-04-29 "['Franz', 'Parisi', 'Sevelev', 'Urbani', 'Zamponi']"
1702.06979 "Work distributions for random sudden quantum quenches" "quant-ph cond-mat.stat-mech" "The statistics of work performed on a system by a sudden random quench is
investigated. Considering systems with finite dimensional Hilbert spaces we
model a sudden random quench by randomly choosing elements from a Gaussian
unitary ensemble (GUE) consisting of hermitean matrices with identically,
Gaussian distributed matrix elements. A probability density function (pdf) of
work in terms of initial and final energy distributions is derived and
evaluated for a two-level system. Explicit results are obtained for quenches
with a sharply given initial Hamiltonian, while the work pdfs for quenches
between Hamiltonians from two independent GUEs can only be determined in
explicit form in the limits of zero and infinite temperature." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052137 2017-02-22  "['Łobejko', 'Łuczka', 'Talkner']"
1702.07170 "Plasmon modes of bilayer molybdenum disulfide: A density functional
  study" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "We explore the collective electronic excitations of bilayer molybdenum
disulfide (MoS$_2$) using the density functional theory together with the
random phase approximation. The many-body dielectric function and electron
energy-loss spectra are calculated using an {\it ab initio} based model
involving material-realistic physical properties. The electron energy-loss
function of bilayer MoS$_2$ system is found to be sensitive to either electron
or hole doping and it is owing to the fact that the Kohn-Sham band dispersions
are not symmetric for energies above and below the zero Fermi level. Three
plasmon modes are predicted. A damped high-energy mode, one optical mode
(in-phase mode) for which the plasmon dispersion exhibits $\sqrt q $ in the
long wavelength limit originating from low-energy electron scattering and
finally a highly damped acoustic mode (out-of-phase mode)."  2017-02-23 2017-06-06 "['Torbatian', 'Asgari']"
1702.07381 "Kondo-Ising and Tight-Binding Models for TmB4" cond-mat.str-el "In $TmB_4$, localized electrons with a large magnetic moment interact with
metallic electrons in boron-derived bands. We examine the nature of $TmB_4$
using full-relativistic ab-initio density functional theory calculations,
approximate tight-binding Hamiltonian results, and the development of an
effective Kondo-Ising model for this system. Features of the Fermi surface
relating to the anisotropic conduction of charge are discussed. The observed
magnetic moment $\sim 6 \, \mu_B$ is argued to require a subtle crystal field
effect in metallic systems, involving a flipped sign of the effective charges
surrounding a Tm ion. The role of on-site quantum dynamics in the resulting
Kondo-Ising type ""impurity"" model are highlighted. From this model, elimination
of the conduction electrons will lead to spin-spin (RKKY-type) interaction of
Ising character required to understand the observed fractional magnetization
plateaus in $TmB_4$." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205140 2017-02-23 2017-04-29 "['Shin', 'Schlesinger', 'Shastry']"
1702.07727 "Coherent Oscillations of Driven rf SQUID Metamaterials" "cond-mat.supr-con nlin.AO quant-ph" "Through experiments and numerical simulations we explore the behavior of rf
SQUID (radio frequency superconducting quantum interference device)
metamaterials, which show extreme tunability and nonlinearity. The emergent
electromagnetic properties of this metamaterial are sensitive to the degree of
coherent response of the driven interacting SQUIDs. Coherence suffers in the
presence of disorder, which is experimentally found to be mainly due to a dc
flux gradient. We demonstrate methods to recover the coherence, specifically by
varying the coupling between the SQUID meta-atoms and increasing the
temperature or the amplitude of the applied rf flux." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.050201 2017-02-24  "['Trepanier', 'Zhang', 'Mukhanov', 'Koshelets', 'Jung', 'Butz', 'Ott', 'Antonsen', 'Ustinov', 'Anlage']"
1702.07775 "Dynamics of quantum vortices in a quasi-two-dimensional Bose-Einstein
  condensate with two ""holes""" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.flu-dyn" "The dynamics of interacting quantum vortices in a quasi-two-dimensional
spatially inhomogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate, whose equilibrium density
vanishes at two points of the plane with a possible presence of an immobile
vortex with a few circulation quanta at each point, has been considered in a
hydrodynamic approximation. A special class of density profiles has been
chosen, so that it proves possible to calculate analytically the velocity field
produced by point vortices. The equations of motion have been given in a
noncanonical Hamiltonian form. The theory has been generalized to the case
where the condensate forms a curved quasi-two-dimensional shell in the
three-dimensional space." 10.1134/S0021364017070128 2017-02-07 2017-05-31 ['Ruban']
1702.07791 "Second-order dissipative hydrodynamics for plasma with chiral asymmetry
  and vorticity" "hep-th cond-mat.mes-hall hep-ph nucl-th" "By making use of the chiral kinetic theory in the relaxation-time
approximation, we derive an Israel-Stewart type formulation of the hydrodynamic
equations for a chiral relativistic plasma made of neutral particles (e.g.,
neutrinos). The effects of chiral asymmetry are captured by including an
additional continuity equation for the axial charge, as well as the
leading-order quantum corrections due to the spin of particles. In a
formulation of the chiral kinetic theory used, we introduce a symmetric form of
the energy-momentum tensor that is suitable for the description of a weakly
nonuniform chiral plasma. By construction, the energy and momentum are
conserved to the same leading order in the Planck constant as the kinetic
equation itself. By making use of such a chiral kinetic theory and the
Chapman-Enskog approach, we obtain a set of second-order dissipative
hydrodynamic equations. The effects of the fluid vorticity and velocity
fluctuations on the dispersion relations of chiral vortical waves are analyzed." 10.1103/PhysRevD.95.096010 2017-02-24 2017-06-03 "['Gorbar', 'Rybalka', 'Shovkovy']"
1702.07982 "Weyl Semimetal and Topological Phase Transition in Five Dimensions" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study two Weyl semimetal generalizations in five dimensions (5d) which
have Yang monopoles and linked Weyl surfaces in the Brillouin zone,
respectively, and carry the second Chern number as a topological number. In
particular, we show a Yang monopole naturally reduces to a Hopf link of two
Weyl surfaces when the $\mathbf{TP}$ (time-reversal combined with
space-inversion) symmetry is broken. We then examine the phase transition
between insulators with different topological numbers in 5d. In analogy to the
3d case, 5d Weyl semimetals emerge as intermediate phases during the
topological phase transition." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.235106 2017-02-25 2017-06-05 "['Lian', 'Zhang']"
1702.07993 "Counting Near Infrared Photons with Microwave Kinetic Inductance
  Detectors" "physics.ins-det cond-mat.mes-hall" "We demonstrate photon counting at 1550 nm wavelength using microwave kinetic
inductance detectors (MKIDs) made from TiN/Ti/TiN trilayer films with
superconducting transition temperature Tc ~ 1.4 K. The detectors have a
lumped-element design with a large interdigitated capacitor (IDC) covered by
aluminum and inductive photon absorbers whose volume ranges from 0.4 um^3 to 20
um^3. We find that the energy resolution improves as the absorber volume is
reduced. We have achieved an energy resolution of 0.22 eV and resolved up to 7
photons per pulse, both greatly improved from previously reported results at
1550 nm wavelength using MKIDs. Further improvements are possible by optimizing
the optical coupling to maximize photon absorption into the inductive absorber." 10.1063/1.4984134 2017-02-26 2017-05-09 "['Guo', 'Liu', 'Wang', 'Wei', 'Wei', 'Hubmayr', 'Fowler', 'Ullom', 'Vale', 'Vissers', 'Gao']"
1702.08462 "Energy diffusion and the butterfly effect in inhomogeneous
  Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev chains" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el" "We compute the energy diffusion constant $D$, Lyapunov time $\tau_{\text{L}}$
and butterfly velocity $v_{\text{B}}$ in an inhomogeneous chain of coupled
Majorana Sachdev-Ye-Kitaev (SYK) models in the large $N$ and strong coupling
limit. We find $D\le v_{\text{B}}^2 \tau_{\text{L}}$ from a combination of
analytical and numerical approaches. Our example necessitates the sharpening of
postulated transport bounds based on quantum chaos." 10.21468/SciPostPhys.2.3.018 2017-02-27 2017-05-09 "['Gu', 'Lucas', 'Qi']"
1702.08565 "Nearly Maximally Predictive Features and Their Dimensions" "cond-mat.stat-mech cs.IT math.IT nlin.CD stat.ML" "Scientific explanation often requires inferring maximally predictive features
from a given data set. Unfortunately, the collection of minimal maximally
predictive features for most stochastic processes is uncountably infinite. In
such cases, one compromises and instead seeks nearly maximally predictive
features. Here, we derive upper-bounds on the rates at which the number and the
coding cost of nearly maximally predictive features scales with desired
predictive power. The rates are determined by the fractal dimensions of a
process' mixed-state distribution. These results, in turn, show how widely-used
finite-order Markov models can fail as predictors and that mixed-state
predictive features offer a substantial improvement." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.051301 2017-02-27  "['Marzen', 'Crutchfield']"
1702.08632 "Critical behaviour in two-dimensional Coulomb Glass at zero temperature" cond-mat.dis-nn "The lattice model of Coulomb Glass in two dimensions with box-type random
field distribution is studied at zero temperature for system size upto
$96^{2}$. To obtain the minimum energy state we annealed the system using Monte
Carlo simulation followed by further minimization using cluster-flipping. The
values of the critical exponents are determined using the standard finite size
scaling. We found that the correlation length $\xi$ diverges with an exponent
$\nu=1.0$ at the critical disorder $W_{c} = 0.2253$ and that $\chi_{dis}
\approx \xi^{4-\bar{\eta}}$ with $\bar{\eta}=2$ for the disconnected
susceptibility. The staggered magnetization behaves discontinuously around the
transition and the critical exponent of magnetization $\beta=0$. The
probability distribution of the staggered magnetization shows a three peak
structure which is a characteristic feature for the phase coexistence at
first-order phase transition. In addition to this, at the critical disorder we
have also studied the properties of the domain for different system sizes. In
contradiction with the Imry-Ma arguments, we found pinned and non-compact
domains where most of the random field energy was contained in the domain wall.
Our results are also inconsistent with Binder's roughening picture." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184203 2017-02-27 2017-05-08 "['Bhandari', 'Malik', 'Ahmad']"
1702.08803 "Universal diffusion in strange-metal transport" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el" "Using a simple holographic model with momentum dissipation, we show that a
particular diffusive mode combining the charge and energy can be identified at
high temperatures and is underpinned by the Planckian timescale. We develop a
holographic approach to study the renormalisation group (RG) flow of
thermo-electric transports. It is observed that the RG flow of the composite
conductivity approaches the electric conductivity at horizon and does not run
at high temperatures. We derive a universal bound on the composite conductivity
for all quantum field theories, which is extensively saturated in holographic
theories. Assuming that the Plankian dissipation and special RG flow appear in
a wide class of theories, we obtain two descendent bounds. Their saturation may
be responsible for the ubiquity of high-temperature linear resistivity in
strange metals, which can be relatively clean or not."  2017-02-28 2017-06-02 "['Wu', 'Wang', 'Ge', 'Tian']"
1702.08804 "Thermal memristor and neuromorphic networks for manipulating heat flow" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.soft physics.class-ph" "A memristor is one of four fundamental two-terminal solid elements in
electronics. In addition with the resistor, the capacitor and the inductor,
this passive element relates the electric charges to current in solid state
elements. Here we report the existence of a thermal analog for this element
made with metal-insulator transition materials. We demonstrate that these
memristive systems can be used to create thermal neurons opening so the way to
neuromophic networks for smart thermal management and information treatment."  2017-02-26 2017-06-02 ['Ben-Abdallah']
1702.08838 "Finite-representation approximation of lattice gauge theories at the
  continuum limit with tensor networks" "hep-lat cond-mat.str-el hep-th quant-ph" "It has been established that Matrix Product States can be used to compute the
ground state and single-particle excitations and their properties of lattice
gauge theories at the continuum limit. However, by construction, in this
formalism the Hilbert space of the gauge fields is truncated to a finite number
of irreducible representations of the gauge group. We investigate
quantitatively the influence of the truncation of the infinite number of
representations in the Schwinger model, one-flavour QED$_2$, with a uniform
electric background field. We compute the two-site reduced density matrix of
the ground state and the weight of each of the representations. We find that
this weight decays exponentially with the quadratic Casimir invariant of the
representation which justifies the approach of truncating the Hilbert space of
the gauge fields. Finally, we compute the single-particle spectrum of the model
as a function of the electric background field." 10.1103/PhysRevD.95.094509 2017-02-28  "['Buyens', 'Montangero', 'Haegeman', 'Verstraete', 'Van Acoleyen']"
1703.00014 "Insulators and metals with topological order and discrete symmetry
  breaking" "cond-mat.str-el hep-th" "Numerous experiments have reported discrete symmetry breaking in the high
temperature pseudogap phase of the hole-doped cuprates, including breaking of
one or more of lattice rotation, inversion, or time-reversal symmetries. In the
absence of translational symmetry breaking or topological order, these
conventional order parameters cannot explain the gap in the charged fermion
excitation spectrum in the anti-nodal region. Zhao et al. (1601.01688) and
Jeong et al. (arXiv:1701.06485) have also reported inversion and time-reversal
symmetry breaking in insulating Sr2IrO4 similar to that in the metallic
cuprates, but co-existing with Neel order. We extend an earlier theory of
topological order in insulators and metals, in which the topological order
combines naturally with the breaking of these conventional discrete symmetries.
We find translationally-invariant states with topological order co-existing
with both Ising-nematic order and spontaneous charge currents. The link between
the discrete broken symmetries and the topological-order-induced pseudogap
explains why the broken symmetries do not survive in the confining phases
without a pseudogap at large doping. Our theory also connects to the O(3)
non-linear sigma model and CP1 descriptions of quantum fluctuations of the Neel
order. In this framework, the optimal doping criticality of the cuprates is
primarily associated with the loss of topological order." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205133 2017-02-28 2017-05-02 "['Chatterjee', 'Sachdev']"
1703.00248 "The Polycluster Theory for the Structure of Glasses: Evidence from Low
  Temperature Physics" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "The problems of the intermediate-range atomic structure of glasses and of the
mechanism for the glass transition are approached from the low-temperature end
in terms of a scenario for the atomic organization that justifies the use of an
extended tunneling model. The latter is crucial for the explanation of the
magnetic and compositional effects discovered in non-metallic glasses in the
Kelvin and milli-Kelvin temperature range. The model relies on the existence of
multi-welled local potentials for the effective tunneling particles that are a
manifestation of a non-homogeneous atomic structure deriving from the
established dynamical heterogeneities that characterize the supercooled liquid
state. It is shown that the extended tunneling model can successfully explain a
range of experiments at low temperatures, but the proposed non-homogeneous
atomic structure scenario is then tested in the light of available high
resolution electron microscopy imaging of the structure of some glasses and on
the behaviour near the transition."  2017-03-01 2017-05-27 ['Jug']
1703.00510 "Dynamical Quantum Anomalous Hall Effect in Strong Optical Fields" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall" "Topological insulators (TIs) are characterized by the quantum anomalous Hall
effect (QAHE) on the topological surface states under time-reversal symmetry
breaking. Motivated by recent experiments on the magneto-optical effects
induced by the QAHE, we develop a theory for the dynamical Hall conductivity
for subgap optical frequency and intense optical fields using the
Keldysh-Floquet Green's function formalism. Our theory reveals a nonlinear
regime in which the Hall conductivity remains close to $e^2/2h$ at low
frequencies. At higher optical fields, we find that the subsequent collapse of
the half quantization is accompanied by coherent oscillations of the dynamical
Hall conductivity as a function of field strength, triggered by the formation
of Floquet subbands and the concomitant inter-subband transitions." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201411 2017-03-01  "['Lee', 'Tse']"
1703.01096 "Photo-association of trilobite Rydberg molecules via resonant spin-orbit
  coupling" "physics.atom-ph cond-mat.quant-gas" "We report on a novel method for photo-association of strongly polar trilobite
Rydberg molecules. This exotic ultralong-range dimer, consisting of a
ground-state atom bound to the Rydberg electron via electron-neutral
scattering, inherits its polar character from the admixture of high angular
momentum electronic orbitals. The absence of low-$L$ character hinders standard
photo-association techniques. Here, we show that for suitable principal quantum
numbers resonant coupling of the orbital motion with the nuclear spin of the
perturber, mediated by electron-neutral scattering, hybridizes the trilobite
molecular potential with the more conventional ${\rm{S}}$-type molecular state.
This provides a general path to associate trilobite molecules with large
electric dipole moments, as demonstrated via high-resolution spectroscopy. We
find a dipole moment of 135(45) D for the trilobite state. Our results are
compared to theoretical predictions based on a Fermi-model." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.223001 2017-03-03 2017-05-04 "['Kleinbach', 'Meinert', 'Engel', 'Kwon', 'Löw', 'Pfau', 'Raithel']"
1703.01147 "Tetramer Bound States in Heteronuclear Systems" "cond-mat.quant-gas nucl-th" "We calculate the universal spectrum of trimer and tetramer states in
heteronuclear mixtures of ultracold atoms with different masses in the vicinity
of the heavy-light dimer threshold. To extract the energies, we solve the
three- and four-body problem for simple two- and three-body potentials tuned to
the universal region using the Gaussian expansion method. We focus on the case
of one light particle of mass $m$ and two or three heavy bosons of mass $M$
with resonant heavy-light interactions. We find that trimer and tetramer cross
into the heavy-light dimer threshold at almost the same point and that as the
mass ratio $M/m$ decreases, the distance between the thresholds for trimer and
tetramer states becomes smaller. We also comment on the possibility of
observing exotic three-body states consisting of a dimer and two atoms in this
region and compare with previous work." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052710 2017-03-03 2017-06-02 "['Schmickler', 'Hammer', 'Hiyama']"
1703.01194 "Highly excited electronic image states of metallic nanorings" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study electronic image states around a metallic nanoring and show that the
interplay between the attractive polarization force and a repulsive centrifugal
force gives rise to Rydberg-like image states trapped several nanometers away
from the surface. The nanoring is modeled as a perfectly conducting isolated
torus whose electrostatic image potential is derived analytically. The image
states are computed via a two-dimensional finite-difference scheme as solutions
of the effective Schr\""odinger equation describing the outer electron subject
to this image potential. These findings demonstrate not only the existence of
detached image states around nanorings but allow us also to provide general
criteria on the ring geometry, i.e. the aspect ratio of the torus, that need to
be fulfilled in order to support such states." 10.1063/1.4983294 2017-03-03 2017-03-08 "['Fey', 'Jabusch', 'Knörzer', 'Schmelcher']"
1703.01197 "Local Photoemission Spectra and Effects of Spatial Inhomogeneity in the
  BCS-BEC Crossover Regime of a Trapped Ultracold Fermi Gas" cond-mat.quant-gas "We theoretically investigate single particle excitations in the BCS
(Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer)-BEC (Bose-Einstein-Condensation) crossover regime
of an ultracold Fermi gas. Including strong pairing fluctuations within a
$T$-matrix approximation, as well as effects of a harmonic trap potential in
the local density approximation, we calculate the local photoemission spectrum
in the normal state. Recently, JILA group has measured this quantity in a
$^{40}$K Fermi gas, in order to examine homogeneous single-particle properties
of this system. Comparing our results with this experiment, we show that, this
attempt indeed succeeds under the JILA's experimental condition. However, we
also find that the current local photoemission spectroscopy still has room for
improvement, in order to examine the pseudogap phenomenon predicted in the
BCS-BEC crossover region. Since ultracold Fermi gases are always in a trap, our
results would be useful in applying this system to various homogeneous Fermi
systems, as a quantum simulator." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053623 2017-03-03  "['Ota', 'Tajima', 'Hanai', 'Inotani', 'Ohashi']"
1703.01213 "From Compact to Open Clusters in Systems with Competing Interactions" cond-mat.soft "Colloidal particles, amphiphiles, and functionalized nanoparticles are
examples of systems that frequently exhibit short-range attractions coupled
with long-range repulsions. In this work, we observe striking differences in
the dynamics of self-assembled clusters that form in a simple isotropic model
of such systems when the strength of attraction is varied. We find that while
attraction-dominated particles self-assemble into compact clusters with
properties similar to micelles formed by amphiphilic molecules,
repulsion-dominated particles self-assemble into open clusters which have much
shorter life-times. There is also a significantly different dependence of the
solution osmotic pressure versus composition: formation of compact clusters
causes a decrease in the pressure vs. density slope, while formation of open
clusters does not effect the pressure. This thermodynamic quantity turns out to
be much more sensitive in picking out different clustering characteristics than
the overall aggregation curves or cluster shapes. Our results have significant
implications in developing design principles for stable cluster self-assembly
and detection in both laboratory settings and in computer simulations."  2017-03-03 2017-05-31 "['Pȩkalski', 'Santos', 'Panagiotopoulos']"
1703.01293 "Exceptional Points in a Non-Hermitian Topological Pump" "physics.class-ph cond-mat.soft" "We investigate the effects of non-Hermiticity on topological pumping, and
uncover a connection between a topological edge invariant based on topological
pumping and the winding numbers of exceptional points. In Hermitian lattices,
it is known that the topologically nontrivial regime of the topological pump
only arises in the infinite-system limit. In finite non-Hermitian lattices,
however, topologically nontrivial behavior can also appear. We show that this
can be understood in terms of the effects of encircling a pair of exceptional
points during a pumping cycle. This phenomenon is observed experimentally, in a
non-Hermitian microwave network containing variable gain amplifiers." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184306 2017-03-03  "['Hu', 'Wang', 'Shum', 'Chong']"
1703.01308 "Deconfined quantum criticality in SU(3) antiferromagnets on the
  triangular lattice" cond-mat.str-el "We propose field theories for a deconfined quantum critical point in $SU(3)$
antiferromagnets on the triangular lattice. In particular we consider the
continuous transition between a magnetic, three- sublattice color-ordered phase
and a trimerized $SU(3)$ singlet phase. Starting from the magnetically ordered
state we derive a critical theory in terms of fractional bosonic degrees of
freedom, in close analogy to the well-developed description of the $SU(2)$ Neel
- valence bond solid (VBS) transition on the square lattice. Our critical
theory consists of three coupled $CP^2$ models and we study its fixed point
structure using a functional renormalization group approach in a suitable large
$N$ limit. We find a stable critical fixed point and estimate its critical
exponents, thereby providing an example of deconfined criticality beyond the
universality class of the $CP^N$ model. In addition we present a complementary
route towards the critical field theory by studying topological defects of the
trimerized $SU(3)$ singlet phase." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184427 2017-03-03 2017-05-26 "['Pimenov', 'Punk']"
1703.01312 "$0$-$\pi$ transitions in a Josephson junction of irradiated Weyl
  semimetal" cond-mat.mes-hall "We propose a setup for the experimental realization of unexpected and
anisotropic $0$-$\pi$ transitions of the Josephson current, in a junction whose
link is made of irradiated Weyl semi-metal (WSM), due to the presence of chiral
nodes. We show using a Green's function technique that the Josephson current
through a time-reversal symmetric WSM has anisotropic periodic oscillations as
a function of $k_0L$, where $k_0$ is the (relevant) separation of the chiral
nodes and $L$ is the length of the sample. This is unexpected, for
time-reversal symmetric systems, although it has been shown earlier for
time-reversal symmetry breaking WSMs. We then show that the effective value of
$k_0$ can be tuned with precision by irradiating the sample with photons
resulting in $0$-$\pi$ transitions of the critical current. Finally, we discuss
the robustness of our setup." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201115 2017-03-03 2017-06-06 "['Khanna', 'Rao', 'Kundu']"
1703.01663 "Assessment of long-range-corrected exchange-correlation kernels for
  solids: accurate exciton binding energies via an empirically scaled Bootstrap
  kernel" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In time-dependent density-functional theory, a family of exchange-correlation
kernels, known as long-range-corrected (LRC) kernels, have shown promise in the
calculation of excitonic effects in solids. We perform a systematic assessment
of existing static LRC kernels (empirical LRC, Bootstrap, and
jellium-with-a-gap model) for a range of semiconductors and insulators,
focusing on optical spectra and exciton binding energies. We find that no LRC
kernel is capable of simultaneously producing good optical spectra and
quantitatively accurate exciton binding energies for both semiconductors and
insulators. We propose a simple and universal, empirically scaled Bootstrap
kernel which yields accurate exciton binding energies for all materials under
consideration, with low computational cost." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205136 2017-03-05  "['Byun', 'Ullrich']"
1703.01802 "Analysis of Granular Packing Structure by Scattering of THz Radiation" cond-mat.soft "Scattering methods are widespread used to characterize the structure and
constituents of matter on small length scales. This motivates this introductory
text on identifying prospective approaches to scattering-based methods for
granular media. A survey to light scattering by particles and particle
ensembles is given. It is elaborated why the established scattering methods
using X-rays and visible light cannot in general be transferred to granular
media. Spectroscopic measurements using Terahertz radiation are highlighted as
they to probe the scattering properties of granular media, which are sensitive
to the packing structure. Experimental details to optimize spectrometer for
measurements on granular media are discussed. We perform transmission
measurements on static and agitated granular media using Fourier-transform
spectroscopy at the THz beamline of the BessyII storage ring. The measurements
demonstrate the potential to evaluate degrees of order in the media and to
track transient structural states in agitated bulk granular media." 10.1063/1.4983045 2017-03-06 2017-04-28 "['Born', 'Holldack']"
1703.02167 "Anisotropy Driven Transition from Moore-Read State to Quantum Hall
  Stripes" cond-mat.str-el "We investigate the nature of the quantum Hall liquid in a half-filled second
Landau level ($n=1$) as a function of band mass anisotropy using numerical
exact diagonalization (ED) and density matrix renormalization group (DMRG)
methods. We find increasing the mass anisotropy induces a quantum phase
transition from the Moore-Read state to a charge density wave state. By
analyzing the energy spectrum, guiding center structure factors and by adding
weak pinning potentials, we show that this charge density wave is a
uni-directional quantum Hall stripe, which has a periodicity of a few magnetic
lengths and survives in the thermodynamic limit." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201116 2017-03-06  "['Zhu', 'Sodemann', 'Sheng', 'Fu']"
1703.02240 "Pair-checkerboard antiferromagnetic order in $\beta$-Fe$_4$Se$_5$ with
  $\sqrt{5}\times\sqrt{5}$ ordered Fe vacancies" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "The electronic structure of recently discovered $\beta$-Fe$_4$Se$_5$ with
$\sqrt{5} \times \sqrt{5}$ ordered Fe vacancies is calculated using
first-principles density functional theory. We find that the ground state is an
antiferromagnetic (AFM) insulator in agreement with the experimental
observation. In K$_2$Fe$_4$Se$_5$, it is known that the ground state is
$\sqrt{5} \times \sqrt{5}$-blocked-checkerboard AFM ordered. But for this
material, we find that the ground state is $\sqrt{5} \times
\sqrt{5}$-pair-checkerboard AFM ordered, in which the intrablock four Fe spins
exhibit the collinear AFM order and the interblock spins on any two
nearest-neighboring sites are antiparallel aligned. This state is about 130
meV/Fe lower in energy than the $\sqrt{5} \times \sqrt{5}$-blocked-checkerboard
AFM one. Electron doping can lower the energy of the $\sqrt{5} \times
\sqrt{5}$-blocked-checkerboard AFM state and introduce a transition between
these two states, suggesting that there is strong AFM fluctuation in FeSe-based
materials upon doping. This provides a unified picture to understand the AFM
orders in $\beta$-Fe$_4$Se$_5$ and in alkali-metal intercalated FeSe materials." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174523 2017-03-07  "['Gao', 'Kong', 'Yan', 'Lu', 'Xiang']"
1703.02541 "Higgs Modes in the Pair Density Wave Superconducting State" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "The pair density wave (PDW) superconducting state has been proposed to
explain the layer- decoupling effect observed in the compound
La$_{2-x}$Ba$_x$CuO$_4$ at $x=1/8$ (Phys. Rev. Lett. 99, 127003). In this state
the superconducting order parameter is spatially modulated, in contrast with
the usual superconducting (SC) state where the order parameter is uniform. In
this work, we study the properties of the amplitude (Higgs) modes in a
unidirectional PDW state. To this end we consider a phenomenological model of
PDW type states coupled to a Fermi surface of fermionic quasiparticles. In
contrast to conventional superconductors that have a single Higgs mode,
unidirectional PDW superconductors have two Higgs modes. While in the PDW state
the Fermi surface largely remains gapless, we find that the damping of the PDW
Higgs modes into fermionic quasiparticles requires exceeding an energy
threshold. We show that this suppression of damping in the PDW state is due to
kinematics. As a result, only one of the two Higgs modes is significantly
damped. In addition, motivated by the experimental phase diagram, we discuss
the mixing of Higgs modes in the coexistence regime of the PDW and uniform SC
states. These results should be observable directly in a Raman spectroscopy, in
momentum resolved electron energy loss spectroscopy, and in resonant inelastic
X-ray scattering, thus providing evidence of the PDW states." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.214502 2017-03-07 2017-05-09 "['Soto-Garrido', 'Wang', 'Fradkin', 'Cooper']"
1703.02553 "Floquet topological phases protected by time glide symmetry" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall" "We study Floquet topological phases in periodically driven systems that are
protected by ""time glide symmetry"", a combination of reflection and half time
period translation. Time glide symmetry is an analog of glide symmetry with
partial time translation replacing the partial space translation, and hence, is
an intrinsically dynamical symmetry which may be engineered in periodically
driven systems by exploiting the controllability of driving. We present lattice
models of time glide symmetric Floquet topological insulators in two and three
dimensions. The topological numbers characterizing those Floquet topological
phases are derived from the half period time evolution operator along with time
glide operator. Moreover, we classify Floquet topological phases protected by
time glide symmetry in general dimensions using a Clifford algebra approach.
The obtained classification table is similar to that for topological
crystalline insulators protected by static reflection symmetry, but shows
nontrivial entries in different combination of symmetries, which clarifies that
time glide symmetric Floquet topological phases are a distinct set of
topological phases from topological crystalline insulators. We also classify
Floquet topological phases with ""time screw symmetry,"" defined as a two-fold
spatial rotation accompanied by half-period time translation." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195155 2017-03-07 2017-05-26 "['Morimoto', 'Po', 'Vishwanath']"
1703.02572 "Dealing with the exponential wall in electronic structure calculations" "physics.chem-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "An alternative to Density Functional Theory are wavefunction based electronic
structure calculations for solids. In order to perform them the Exponential
Wall (EW) problem has to be resolved. It is caused by an exponential increase
of the number of configurations with increasing electron number N. There are
different routes one may follow. One is to characterize a many-electron
wavefunction by a vector in Liouville space with a cumulant metric rather than
in Hilbert space. This removes the EW problem. Another is to model the solid by
an {\it impurity} or {\it fragment} embedded in a {\it bath} which is treated
at a much lower level than the former. This is the case in Density Matrix
Embedding Theory (DMET) or Density Embedding Theory (DET). The latter are
closely related to a Schmidt decomposition of a system and to the determination
of the associated entanglement. We show here the connection between the two
approaches. It turns out that the DMET (or DET) has an identical active space
as a previously used Local Ansatz, based on a projection and partitioning
approach. Yet, the EW problem is resolved differently in the two cases. By
studying a $H_{10}$ ring these differences are analyzed with the help of the
method of increments." 10.1063/1.4983207 2017-03-03  "['Fulde', 'Stoll']"
1703.02789 "Effect of dipolar interactions and DC magnetic field on the specific
  absorption rate of an array of magnetic nanoparticles" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.app-ph" "We address the issue of inter-particle dipolar interactions in the context of
magnetic hyperthermia. More precisely, the main question dealt with here is
concerned with the conditions under which the specific absorption rate is
enhanced or reduced by dipolar interactions. For this purpose, we propose a
theory for the calculation of the AC susceptibility, and thereby the specific
absorption rate, for a monodisperse two-dimensional assembly of nanoparticles
with oriented anisotropy, in the presence of a DC magnetic field, in addition
to the AC magnetic field. We also study the competition between the dipolar
interactions and the DC field, both in the transverse and longitudinal
configurations. In both cases, we find that the specific absorption rate has a
maximum at some critical DC field that depends on the inter-particle
separation. In the longitudinal setup, this critical field falls well within
the range of experiments." 10.1063/1.4984013 2017-03-08 2017-05-23 "['Déjardin', 'Vernay', 'Respaud', 'Kachkachi']"
1703.02816 "Refractive Index Matched Scanning and Detection of Soft Particle" cond-mat.soft "We describe here how to apply the three dimensional imaging technique of
refrecative index matched scanning to hydrogel spheres. Hydrogels are water
based materials with a low refractive index, which allows for index matching
with water-based solvent mixtures. We discuss here various experimental
techniques required to handle specifically hydrogel spheres as opposed to other
transparent materials. The deformability of hydrogel spheres makes their
identification in three dimensional images non-trivial. We will also discuss
numerical techniques that can be used in general to detect contacting,
non-spherical particles in a three dimensional image. The experimental and
numerical techniques presented here give experimental access to the stress
tensor of a packing of deformed particles." 10.1063/1.4983047 2017-03-08  "['Dijksman', 'Brodu', 'Behringer']"
1703.02928 "Focus on Imaging Methods in Granular Physics" "physics.ins-det cond-mat.soft" "Granular materials are complex multi-particle ensembles in which macroscopic
properties are largely determined by inter-particle interactions between their
numerous constituents. In order to understand and to predict their macroscopic
physical behavior, it is necessary to analyze the composition and interactions
at the level of individual contacts and grains. To do so requires the ability
to image individual particles and their local configurations to high precision.
A variety of competing and complementary imaging techniques have been developed
for that task. In this introductory paper accompanying the Focus Issue, we
provide an overview of these imaging methods and discuss their advantages and
drawbacks, as well as their limits of application." 10.1063/1.4983052 2017-03-07 2017-04-07 "['Amon', 'Born', 'Daniels', 'Dijksman', 'Huang', 'Parker', 'Schröter', 'Stannarius', 'Wierschem']"
1703.02946 "Resistive Switching in Memristive Electrochemical Metallization Devices" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "We report on resistive switching of memristive electrochemical metallization
devices using 3D kinetic Monte Carlo simulations describing the transport of
ions through a solid state electrolyte of an Ag/TiO$_{\text{x}}$/Pt thin layer
system. The ion transport model is consistently coupled with solvers for the
electric field and thermal diffusion. We show that the model is able to
describe not only the formation of conducting filaments but also its
dissolution. Furthermore, we calculate realistic current-voltage
characteristics and resistive switching kinetics. Finally, we discuss in detail
the influence of both the electric field and the local heat on the switching
processes of the device."  2017-03-08 2017-06-03 "['Dirkmann', 'Mussenbrock']"
1703.02986 "Majorana Kramers pair in a nematic vortex" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mes-hall" "A time-reversal (TR) invariant topological superconductor is characterized by
a Kramers pair of Majorana zero-energy modes on boundaries and in a core of a
TR invariant vortex. A vortex defect that preserves TR symmetry has remained
primarily of theoretical interest, since typically a magnetic field, which
explicitly breaks TR, needs to be applied to create vortices in
superconductors. In this work, we show that an odd-parity topological
superconductor with a nematic pairing order parameter can host a nematic vortex
that preserves TR symmetry and binds a Majorana Kramers pair. Such a nematic
superconductor could be realized in metal-doped Bi$_2$Se$_3$, as suggested by
recent experiments. We provide an analytic solution for the zero modes in a
continuous nematic vortex. In lattice, crystalline anisotropy can pin the
two-component order parameter along high-symmetry directions. We show that a
discrete nematic vortex, which forms when three nematic domains meet, also
supports a TR pair of Majorana modes. Finally, we discuss possible experiments
to probe the zero modes." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224503 2017-03-08 2017-06-01 "['Wu', 'Martin']"
1703.02993 "Universality in volume law entanglement of pure quantum states" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.quant-gas hep-th quant-ph" "A pure quantum state can fully describe thermal equilibrium as long as one
focuses on local observables. Thermodynamic entropy can also be recovered as
the entanglement entropy of small subsystems. When the size of the subsystem
increases, however, quantum correlations break the correspondence and cause a
correction to this simple volume-law. To elucidate the size dependence of the
entanglement entropy is of essential importance in linking quantum physics with
thermodynamics, and in addressing recent experiments in ultra-cold atoms. Here
we derive an analytic formula of the entanglement entropy for a class of pure
states called cTPQ states representing thermal equilibrium. We further find
that our formula applies universally to any sufficiently scrambled pure states
representing thermal equilibrium, i.e., general energy eigenstates of
non-integrable models and states after quantum quenches. Our universal formula
can be exploited as a diagnostic of chaotic systems; we can distinguish
integrable models from chaotic ones and detect many-body localization with high
accuracy."  2017-03-08 2017-05-31 "['Fujita', 'Nakagawa', 'Sugiura', 'Watanabe']"
1703.03002 "Charge and spin current statistics of the open Hubbard model with weak
  coupling to the environment" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "Based on generalization and extension of previous work [Phys. Rev. Lett. {\bf
112}, 067201 (2014)] to multiple independent markovian baths we will compute
the charge and spin current statistics of the open Hubbard model with weak
system-bath coupling up to next-to-leading order in the coupling parameter. The
physical results are related to those for the $XXZ$ model in the analogous
setup implying a certain universality which potentially holds in this class of
nonequilibrium models." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052141 2017-03-08  "['Buca', 'Prosen']"
1703.03009 "Spin dynamics of antiferromagnets in the presence of a homogeneous
  magnetization" cond-mat.str-el "We use general hydrodynamic equations to determine the long-wavelength spin
excitations in isotropic antiferromagnets in the presence of a homogeneous
magnetization. The latter may be induced, such as in antiferromagnets in an
external magnetic field, or spontaneous, such as in ferrimagnetic or canted
phases that are characterized by the coexistence of antiferromagnetic and
ferromagnetic order. Depending on the physical situation, we find propagating
spin waves that are gapped in some cases and gapless in others, diffusive
modes, or relaxational modes. The excitation spectra turn out to be
qualitatively different depending on whether or not the homogeneous
magnetization is a conserved quantity. The results lay the foundation for a
description of a variety of quantum phase transitions, including the transition
from a ferromagnetic metal to an antiferromagnetic one, and the spin-flop
transitions that are observed in some antiferromagnets. They also are crucial
for incorporating weak-localization and Altshuler-Aronov effects into the
descriptions of quantum phases in both clean and disordered magnetic metals." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.214401 2017-03-08  "['Kirkpatrick', 'Belitz']"
1703.03170 "Orbital selective pairing and superconductivity in iron selenides" cond-mat.supr-con "An important challenge in condensed matter physics is understanding
iron-based superconductors. Among these systems, the iron selenides hold the
record for highest superconducting transition temperature and pose especially
striking puzzles regarding the nature of superconductivity. The pairing state
of the alkaline iron selenides appears to be of $d$-wave type based on the
observation of a resonance mode in neutron scattering, while it seems to be of
$s$-wave type from the nodeless gaps observed everywhere on the Fermi surface
(FS). Here we propose an orbital-selective pairing state, dubbed $s \tau_{3}$,
as a natural explanation of these disparate properties. The pairing function,
containing a matrix $\tau_{3}$ in the basis of $3d$-electron orbitals, does not
commute with the kinetic part of the Hamiltonian. This dictates the existence
of both intraband and interband pairing terms in the band basis. A spin
resonance arises from a $d$-wave-type sign change in the intraband pairing
component whereas the quasiparticle excitation is fully gapped on the FS due to
an $s$-wave-like form factor associated with the addition in quadrature of the
intraband and interband pairing terms. We demonstrate that this pairing state
is energetically favored when the electron correlation effects are orbitally
selective. More generally, our results illustrate how the multiband nature of
correlated electrons affords unusual types of superconducting states, thereby
shedding new light not only on the iron-based materials but also on a broad
range of other unconventional superconductors such as heavy fermion and organic
systems." 10.1038/s41535-017-0027-6 2017-03-09  "['Nica', 'Yu', 'Si']"
1703.03211 "Magnetotransport properties of the triply degenerate node topological
  semimetal tungsten carbide" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We report the magnetoresistance (MR), Hall effect, and de Haas-van Alphen
(dHvA) effect studies of the single crystals of tungsten carbide, WC, which is
predicted to be a new type of topological semimetal with triply degenerate
nodes. With the magnetic field rotated in the plane perpendicular to the
current, WC shows field induced metal to insulator like transition and large
nonsaturating quadratic MR at low temperature. As the magnetic field parallel
to the current, a pronounced negative longitudinal MR only can be observed when
the current flows along the certain direction. Hall effect indicates WC is a
perfect compensated semimetal, which may be related to the large nonsaturating
quadratic MR. The analysis of dHvA oscillations reveals that WC is a multiband
system with small cross-sectional areas of Fermi surface and light cyclotron
effective masses. Our results indicate that WC is an ideal platform to study
the recently proposed New Fermions with triply degenerate crossing points." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195165 2017-03-09 2017-05-31 "['He', 'Chen', 'Zhu', 'Zhang', 'Zhao', 'Ren', 'Chen']"
1703.03508 "Polarization dependent femtosecond laser modification of MBE-grown III-V
  nanostructures on silicon" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.optics" "We report a novel, polarization dependent, femtosecond laser-induced
modification of surface nanostructures of indium, gallium, and arsenic grown on
silicon via molecular beam epitaxy, yielding shape control from linear and
circular polarization of laser excitation. Linear polarization causes an
elongation effect, beyond the dimensions of the unexposed nanostructures,
ranging from 88 nm to over 1 um, and circular polarization causes the
nanostructures to flatten out or form loops of material, to diameters of
approximately 195 nm. During excitation, it is also observed that the generated
second and third harmonic signals from the substrate and surface nanostructures
increase with exposure time." 10.1364/OME.7.002102 2017-03-09 2017-05-31 "['Zandbergen', 'Gibson', 'Amirsolaimani', 'Mehravar', 'Keiffer', 'Azarm', 'Kieu']"
1703.03637 "Quantum Lattice Model Solver ${\mathcal H}\Phi$" cond-mat.str-el "${\mathcal H}\Phi$ [$aitch$-$phi$] is a program package based on the
Lanczos-type eigenvalue solution applicable to a broad range of quantum lattice
models, i.e., arbitrary quantum lattice models with two-body interactions,
including the Heisenberg model, the Kitaev model, the Hubbard model and the
Kondo-lattice model. While it works well on PCs and PC-clusters, ${\mathcal
H}\Phi$ also runs efficiently on massively parallel computers, which
considerably extends the tractable range of the system size. In addition,
unlike most existing packages, ${\mathcal H}\Phi$ supports finite-temperature
calculations through the method of thermal pure quantum (TPQ) states. In this
paper, we explain theoretical background and user-interface of ${\mathcal
H}\Phi$. We also show the benchmark results of ${\mathcal H}\Phi$ on
supercomputers such as the K computer at RIKEN Advanced Institute for
Computational Science (AICS) and SGI ICE XA (Sekirei) at the Institute for the
Solid State Physics (ISSP)." 10.1016/j.cpc.2017.04.006 2017-03-10 2017-03-12 "['Kawamura', 'Yoshimi', 'Misawa', 'Yamaji', 'Todo', 'Kawashima']"
1703.03893 "Graphene-like quaternary compound SiBCN: a new wide direct band gap
  semiconductor predicted by a first-principles study" cond-mat.mes-hall "Due to the lack of two-dimensional silicon-based semiconductors and the fact
that most of the components and devices are generated on single-crystal silicon
or silicon-based substrates in modern industry, designing two-dimensional
silicon-based semiconductors is highly desired. With the combination of a swarm
structure search method and density functional theory in this work, a
quaternary compound SiBCN with graphene-like structure is found and displays a
wide direct band gap as expected. The band gap is of ~2.63 eV which is just
between ~2.20 and ~3.39 eV of the highlighted semiconductors SiC and GaN.
Notably, the further calculation reveals that SiBCN possesses high carrier
mobility with ~5.14x10^3 and ~13.07x10^3 cm^2V^-1s^-1 for electron and hole,
respectively. Furthermore, the ab initio molecular dynamics simulations also
show that the graphene-like structure of SiBCN can be well kept even at an
extremely high temperature of 2000 K. The present work tells that designing
ulticomponent silicides may be a practicable way to search for new
silicon-based low-dimensional semiconductors which can match well with the
previous Si-based substrates." 10.1209/0295-5075/118/17002 2017-03-10  "['Qian', 'Wu', 'Kan', 'Deng']"
1703.03996 "Stable Charged Antiparallel Domain Walls in Hyperferroelectrics" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Charge-neutral 180$^\circ$ domain walls that separate domains of antiparallel
polarization directions are common structural topological defects in
ferroelectrics. In normal ferroelectrics, charged 180$^\circ$ domain walls
running perpendicular to the polarization directions are highly energetically
unfavorable because of the depolarization field and are difficult to stabilize.
We explore both neutral and charged 180$^\circ$ domain walls in
hyperferroelectrics, a class of proper ferroelectrics with persistent
polarization in the presence of a depolarization field, using density
functional theory. We obtain zero temperature equilibrium structures of
head-to-head and tail-to-tail walls in recently discovered $ABC$-type hexagonal
hyperferroelectrics. Charged domain walls can also be stabilized in canonical
ferroelectrics represented by LiNbO$_3$ without any dopants, defects or
mechanical clamping. First-principles electronic structure calculations show
that charged domain walls can reduce and even close the band gap of host
materials and support quasi-two-dimensional electron(hole) gas with enhanced
electrical conductivity." 10.1088/1361-648X/aa6f95 2017-03-11 2017-04-24 "['Liu', 'Cohen']"
1703.04291 "Reinforcement of interfacial superconductivity in a Bi2Te3/Fe1+yTe
  heterostructure under hydrostatic pressure" cond-mat.supr-con "We investigate the hydrostatic pressure dependence of interfacial
superconductivity occurring at the atomically sharp interface between two
non-superconducting materials: the topological insulator (TI) Bi2Te3 and the
parent compound Fe1+yTe of the chalcogenide iron based superconductors. Under
pressure, a significant increase in the superconducting transition temperature
Tc is observed. We trace the pressure dependence of a superconducting twin gap
structure by Andreev reflection point contact spectroscopy (PCARS), which shows
that a large superconducting gap associated with the interfacial
superconductivity increases along with Tc. A second smaller gap, which is
attributed to proximity-induced superconductivity in the TI layer, increases
first, but then reaches a maximum and appears to be gradually suppressed at
higher pressure. We interpret our data in the context of a pressure-induced
doping effect of the interface, in which charge is transferred from the TI
layer to the interface and the interfacial superconductivity is enhanced. This
demonstrates the important role of the TI in the interfacial superconductivity
mechanism."  2017-03-13 2017-06-05 "['Shen', 'Heuckeroth', 'Deng', 'He', 'Liu', 'Liang', 'Wang', 'Sou', 'Schilling', 'Lortz']"
1703.04293 "Crystal Symmetry Lowering in Chiral Multiferroic
  Ba$_3$TaFe$_3$Si$_2$O$_{14}$ observed by X-Ray Magnetic Scattering" cond-mat.str-el "Chiral multiferroic langasites have attracted attention due to their
doubly-chiral magnetic ground state within an enantiomorphic crystal. We report
on a detailed resonant soft X-ray diffraction study of the multiferroic
Ba$_3$TaFe$_3$Si$_2$O$_{14}$ at the Fe $L_{2,3}$ and oxygen $K$ edges. Below
$T_N$ ($\approx27K$) we observe the satellite reflections $(0,0,\tau)$,
$(0,0,2\tau)$, $(0,0,3\tau)$ and $(0,0,1-3\tau)$ where $\tau \approx 0.140 \pm
0.001$. The dependence of the scattering intensity on X-ray polarization and
azimuthal angle indicate that the odd harmonics are dominated by the
out-of-plane ($\mathbf{\hat{c}}$-axis) magnetic dipole while the $(0,0,2\tau)$
originates from the electron density distortions accompanying magnetic order.
We observe dissimilar energy dependences of the diffraction intensity of the
purely magnetic odd-harmonic satellites at the Fe $L_3$ edge. Utilizing
first-principles calculations, we show that this is a consequence of the loss
of threefold crystal symmetry in the multiferroic phase." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205145 2017-03-13  "['Ramakrishnan', 'Joly', 'Windsor', 'Rettig', 'Alberca', 'Bothschafter', 'Lejay', 'Ballou', 'Simonet', 'Scagnoli', 'Staub']"
1703.04297 "Extended Bose Hubbard model for two leg ladder systems in artificial
  magnetic fields" cond-mat.quant-gas "We investigate the ground state properties of ultracold atoms with long range
interactions trapped in a two leg ladder configuration in the presence of an
artificial magnetic field. Using a Gross-Pitaevskii approach and a mean field
Gutzwiller variational method, we explore both the weakly interacting and
strongly interacting regime, respectively. We calculate the boundaries between
the density-wave/supersolid and the Mott-insulator/superfluid phases as a
function of magnetic flux and uncover regions of supersolidity. The mean-field
results are confirmed by numerical simulations using a cluster mean field
approach." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.063601 2017-03-13  "['Sachdeva', 'Singh', 'Busch']"
1703.04430 "Field dependence of the magnetic correlations of the frustrated magnet
  SrDy$_2$O$_4$" cond-mat.str-el "The frustrated magnet SrDy$_2$O$_4$ exhibits a field-induced phase with a
magnetization plateau at $1/3$ of the saturation value for magnetic fields
applied along the $b$-axis. We report here a neutron scattering study of the
nature and symmetry of the magnetic order in this field-induced phase. Below
$T\approx 0.5$ K, there are strong hysteretic effects, and the order is short
or long ranged for zero-field and field cooling, respectively. We find that the
long-range ordered magnetic structure within the zig-zag chains is identical to
that expected for the one-dimensional axial next-nearest neighbour Ising
(ANNNI) model in longitudinal field. The long-range ordered structure in field
contrasts with the short-range order found at zero field, and is probably
reached through enhanced quantum fluctuations with increasing fields." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184436 2017-03-13 2017-05-31 "['Gauthier', 'Fennell', 'Prévost', 'Désilets-Benoit', 'Dabkowska', 'Zaharko', 'Frontzek', 'Sibille', 'Bianchi', 'Kenzelmann']"
1703.04808 "Core filling and snaking instability of dark solitons in spin-imbalanced
  superfluid Fermi gases" cond-mat.quant-gas "We use the time-dependent Bogoliubov de Gennes equations to study dark
solitons in three-dimensional spin-imbalanced superfluid Fermi gases. We
explore how the shape and dynamics of dark solitons are altered by the presence
of excess unpaired spins which fill their low-density core. The unpaired
particles broaden the solitons and suppress the transverse snake instability.
We discuss ways of observing these phenomena in cold atom experiments." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053637 2017-03-14 2017-06-02 "['Reichl', 'Mueller']"
1703.05098 "Stochastic thermodynamics in the strong coupling regime: An unambiguous
  approach based on coarse-graining" cond-mat.stat-mech "We consider a classical and possibly driven composite system $X \otimes Y$
weakly coupled to a Markovian thermal reservoir $R$ so that an unambiguous
stochastic thermodynamics ensues for $X \otimes Y$. This setup can be
equivalently seen as a system $X$ strongly coupled to a non-Markovian reservoir
$Y \otimes R$. We demonstrate that only in the limit where the dynamics of $Y$
is much faster then $X$, our unambiguous expressions for thermodynamic
quantities such as heat, entropy or internal energy, are equivalent to the
strong coupling expressions recently obtained in the literature using the
Hamiltonian of mean force. By doing so, we also significantly extend these
results by formulating them at the level of instantaneous rates and by allowing
for time-dependent couplings between $X$ and its environment. Away from the
limit where $Y$ evolves much faster than $X$, previous approaches fail to
reproduce the correct results from the original unambiguous formulation, as we
illustrate numerically for an underdamped Brownian particle coupled strongly to
a non-Markovian reservoir." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.062101 2017-03-15 2017-05-29 "['Strasberg', 'Esposito']"
1703.05529 "3D magnetization currents, magnetization loop, and saturation field in
  superconducting rectangular prisms" cond-mat.supr-con "Bulk superconductors are used in both many applications and material
characterization experiments, being the bulk shape of rectangular prism very
frequent. However the magnetization currents are still mostly unknown for this
kind of three dimensional (3D) shape, specially below the saturation magnetic
field. Knowledge of the magnetization currents in this kind of samples is
needed to interpret the measurements and the development of bulk materials for
applications. This article presents a systematic analysis of the magnetization
currents in prisms of square base and several thicknesses. We make this study
by numerical modeling using a variational principle that enables high number of
degrees of freedom. We also compute the magnetization loops and the saturation
magnetic field, using a definition that is more relevant for thin prisms than
previous ones. The article presents a practical analytical fit for any aspect
ratio. For applied fields below the saturation field, the current paths are not
rectangular, presenting 3D bending. The thickness-average results are
consistent with previous modeling and measurements for thin films. The 3D
bending of the current lines indicates that there could be flux cutting effects
in rectangular prisms. The component of the critical current density in the
applied field direction may play a role, being the magnetization currents in a
bulk and a stack of tapes not identical." 10.1088/1361-6668/aa69ed 2017-03-16 2017-06-01 "['Pardo', 'Kapolka']"
1703.05543 "Oxygen-vacancy driven electron localization and itinerancy in
  rutile-based TiO$_2$" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.str-el" "Oxygen-deficient TiO$_2$ in the rutile structure as well as the Ti$_3$O$_5$
Magn{\'e}li phase is investigated within the charge self-consistent combination
of density functional theory (DFT) with dynamical mean-field theory (DMFT). It
is shown that an isolated oxygen vacancy (V$_{\rm O}$) in titanium dioxide is
not sufficient to metallize the system at low temperatures. In a semiconducting
phase, an in-gap state is identified at $\varepsilon_{\rm IG}^{\hfill}\sim
-0.75\,$eV\, in excellent agreement with experimental data. Band-like impurity
levels, resulting from a threefold V$_{\rm O}$-Ti coordination as well as
entangled $(t_{2g},e_g)$ states, become localized due to site-dependent
electronic correlations. Charge localization and strong orbital polarization
occur in the V$_{\rm O}$-near Ti ions, which details can be modified by a
variation of the correlated subspace. At higher oxygen vacancy concentration, a
correlated metal is stabilized in the Magn{\'e}li phase. A V$_{\rm O}$-defect
rutile structure of identical stoichiometry shows key differences in the
orbital-resolved character and the spectral properties. Charge
disproportionation is vital in the oxygen-deficient compounds, but obvious
metal-insulator transitions driven or sustained by charge order are not
identified." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195159 2017-03-16 2017-05-19 "['Lechermann', 'Heckel', 'Kristanovski', 'Müller']"
1703.05627 "Comparison of the Green-Kubo and homogeneous non-equilibrium molecular
  dynamics methods for calculating thermal conductivity" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Different molecular dynamics methods like the direct method, the Green-Kubo
(GK) method and homogeneous non-equilibrium molecular dynamics (HNEMD) method
have been widely used to calculate lattice thermal conductivity
($\kappa_\ell$). While the first two methods have been used and compared quite
extensively, there is a lack of comparison of these methods with the HNEMD
method. Focusing on the underlying computational parameters, we present a
detailed comparison of the GK and HNEMD methods for both bulk and vacancy Si
using the Stillinger-Weber potential. For the bulk calculations, we find both
methods to perform well and yield $\kappa_\ell$ within acceptable
uncertainties. In case of the vacancy calculations, HNEMD method has a slight
advantage over the GK method as it becomes computationally cheaper for lower
$\kappa_\ell$ values. This study could promote the application of HNEMD method
in $\kappa_\ell$ calculations involving other lattice defects like nanovoids,
dislocations, interfaces." 10.1088/1361-651X/aa6f57 2017-03-16 2017-06-01 "['Dongre', 'Wang', 'Madsen']"
1703.05896 "Structural and magnetic properties of spin-$1/2$ dimer compound
  Cu$_2$(IPA)$_2$(DMF)(H$_2$O) with a large spin gap" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.str-el" "We present the synthesis and a detailed investigation of structural and
magnetic properties of metal-organic compound Cu$_2$(IPA)$_2$(DMF)(H$_2$O) by
means of x-ray diffraction, magnetization, and heat capacity measurements.
Single crystals of the title compound were synthesized by judicious selection
of organic ligand and employing a selective hydrothermal reaction route. It
crystallizes in an orthorhombic structure with space group $Cmca$. The
structural analysis revealed that two Cu$^{2+}$ ions are held together by the
organic component (-O-C-O-) in a square paddle-wheel to form spin dimers which
are aligned perpendicular to each other and are further coupled through organic
ligands (isophthalic acid) forming two-dimensional layers. Temperature
dependent magnetic susceptibility $\chi(T)$ could be described well using
spin-$1/2$ dimer model. The spin susceptibility $\chi_{\rm spin} (T)$ shows an
exponential decrease in the low temperature region, below the broad maximum,
confirming the singlet ground state with a large spin gap of $\Delta/k_{\rm B}
\simeq 409$~K. The heat capacity $C_{\rm p}$ measured as a function of
temperature also confirms the absence of magnetic long-range-order down to 2~K." 10.1088/1361-648X/aa6ecb 2017-03-17  "['Thamban', 'Arjun', 'Padmanabhan', 'Nath']"
1703.05938 "Decomposition of split-step quantum walks for simulating Majorana modes
  and edge states" "quant-ph cond-mat.other" "We construct a decomposition procedure for converting split-step quantum
walks into ordinary quantum walks with alternating coins, and we show that this
decomposition enables a feasible linear optical realization of split-step
quantum walks by eliminating quantum-control requirements. As salient
applications, we show how our scheme will simulate Majorana modes and edge
states." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052351 2017-03-17 2017-05-30 "['Zhang', 'Goyal', 'Simon', 'Sanders']"
1703.06306 "The ladder physics in the Spin Fermion model" cond-mat.str-el "A link is established between the spin-fermion (SF) model of the cuprates and
the approach based on the analogy between the physics of doped Mott insulators
in two dimensions and the physics of fermionic ladders. This enables one to use
nonperturbative results derived for fermionic ladders to move beyond the
large-N approximation in the SF model. It is shown that the paramagnon exchange
postulated in the SF model has exactly the right form to facilitate the
emergence of the fully gapped d-Mott state in the region of the Brillouin zone
at the hot spots of the Fermi surface. Hence the SF model provides an adequate
description of the pseudogap." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201112 2017-03-18 2017-05-08 ['Tsvelik']
1703.06504 "Detection of adsorbed transition-metal porphyrins by spin-dependent
  conductance of graphene nanoribbon" cond-mat.mes-hall "Electronic transport in a zig-zag-edge graphene nanoribbon (GNR) and its
modification by adsorbed transition metal porphyrins is studied by means of
density functional theory calculations. The detachment reaction of the metal
centre of the porphyrin is investigated both in the gas phase and for molecules
adsorbed on the GNR. As most metal porphyrins are very stable against this
reaction, it is found that these molecules bind only weakly to a perfect
nanoribbon. However, interaction with a single-atom vacancy in the GNR results
in chemical bonding by the transition metal centre being shared between
nitrogen atoms in the porphyrin ring and the carbon atoms next to the vacancy
in the GNR. For both the physisorbed and the chemisorbed geometry, the
inclusion of van der Waals interaction results in a significant enlargement of
the binding energy and reduction of the adsorption height. Electronic transport
calculations using non-equilibrium Greens functions show that the conductivity
of the GNR is altered by the chemisorbed porphyrin molecules. Since the metal
centers of porphyrins carry an element-specific magnetic moment, not only the
net conductance, but also the spin-dependent conductance of the GNR is
affected. In particular, the adsorption of Ru-porphyrin on the single-atom
vacancy results in a very large spin polarization of the current of 88% at
small applied source-drain voltages. Based on our results, we suggest that a
spin valve constructed from a GNR with ferromagnetic contacts could be used as
a sensitive detector that could discriminate between various metal porphyrins." 10.1039/c7ra04594h 2017-03-19 2017-06-02 "['Kratzer', 'Tawfik', 'Cui', 'Stampfl']"
1703.07117 "Non-scaling displacement distributions as may be seen in fluorescence
  correlation spectroscopy" "physics.data-an cond-mat.stat-mech" "A continuous time random walk (CTRW) model with waiting times following the
Levy-stable distribution with exponential cut-off in equilibrium is a simple
theoretical model giving rise to normal, yet non-Gaussian diffusion. The
distribution of the particle displacements is explicitly time-dependent and
does not scale. Since fluorescent correlation spectroscopy (FCS) is often used
to investigate diffusion processes, we discuss the influence of this lack of
scaling on the possible outcome of the FCS measurements and calculate the FCS
autocorrelation curves for such equilibrated CTRWs. The results show that
although the deviations from Gaussian behavior may be detected when analyzing
the short and long-time asymptotic behavior of the corresponding curves, their
bodies are still perfectly fitted by the fit forms used for normal diffusion.
The diffusion coefficients obtaied from the fits may however differ
considerably from the true tracer diffusion coefficients as describing the time
dependence of the mean squared displacement" 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052139 2017-03-21  "['Khadem', 'Sokolov']"
1703.07325 "Hydrodynamic Electron Flow and Hall Viscosity" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall" "In metallic samples of small enough size and sufficiently strong
momentum-conserving scattering, the viscosity of the electron gas can become
the dominant process governing transport. In this regime, momentum is a
long-lived quantity whose evolution is described by an emergent hydrodynamical
theory. Furthermore, breaking time-reversal symmetry leads to the appearance of
an odd component to the viscosity called the Hall viscosity, which has
attracted considerable attention recently due to its quantized nature in gapped
systems but still eludes experimental confirmation. Based on microscopic
calculations, we discuss how to measure the effects of both the even and odd
components of the viscosity using hydrodynamic electronic transport in
mesoscopic samples under applied magnetic fields." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.226601 2017-03-21  "['Scaffidi', 'Nandi', 'Schmidt', 'Mackenzie', 'Moore']"
1703.07415 "Observation of robust flat-band localization in driven photonic rhombic
  lattices" "physics.optics cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "We demonstrate that a flat-band state in a quasi-one-dimensional rhombic
lattice is robust in the presence of external drivings along the lattice axis.
The lattice was formed by periodic arrays of evanescently coupled optical
waveguides, and the external drivings were realized by modulating the paths of
the waveguides. We excited a superposition of flat-band eigenmodes at the input
and observed that this state does not diffract in the presence of static as
well as high-frequency sinusoidal drivings. This robust localization is due to
destructive interference of the analogous wavefunction and is associated with
the symmetry in the lattice geometry. We then excited the dispersive bands and
observed Bloch oscillations and coherent destruction of tunneling.
{\textcopyright} 2017 Optical Society of America." 10.1364/OL.42.002243 2017-03-21 2017-05-15 "['Mukherjee', 'Thomson']"
1703.07517 "High-sensitivity, spin-based electrometry with an ensemble of
  nitrogen-vacancy centers in diamond" "physics.optics cond-mat.mes-hall" "We demonstrate a spin-based, all-dielectric electrometer based on an ensemble
of nitrogen-vacancy (NV$^-$) defects in diamond. An applied electric field
causes energy level shifts symmetrically away from the NV$^-$'s degenerate
triplet states via the Stark effect; this symmetry provides immunity to
temperature fluctuations allowing for shot-noise-limited detection. Using an
ensemble of NV$^-$s, we demonstrate shot-noise limited sensitivities
approaching 1 V/cm/$\sqrt{\text{Hz}}$ under ambient conditions, at low
frequencies ($<$10 Hz), and over a large dynamic range (20 dB). A theoretical
model for the ensemble of NV$^-$s fits well with measurements of the
ground-state electric susceptibility parameter, $\langle k_\perp\rangle$.
Implications of spin-based, dielectric sensors for micron-scale electric-field
sensing are discussed." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053417 2017-03-22  "['Chen', 'Clevenson', 'Johnson', 'Pham', 'Englund', 'Hemmer', 'Braje']"
1703.07558 "Conditional $1/f^{\alpha}$ noise: from single molecules to macroscopic
  measurements" cond-mat.stat-mech "We demonstrate that the measurement of $1/f^{\alpha}$ noise at the single
molecule or nano-object limit is remarkably distinct from the macroscopic
measurement over a large sample. The single particle measurements yield a
conditional time-dependent spectrum. However, the number of units fluctuating
on the time scale of the experiment is increasing in such a way that the
macroscopic measurements appear perfectly stationary. The single particle power
spectrum is a conditional spectrum, in the sense that we must make a
distinction between idler and non-idler units on the time scale of the
experiment. We demonstrate our results based on stochastic and deterministic
models, in particular the well known superposition of Lorentzians approach, the
blinking quantum dot model, and deterministic dynamics generated by non-linear
mapping. Our results show that the $1/f^\alpha$ spectrum is inherently
nonstationary even if the macroscopic measurement completely obscures the
underlying time dependence of the phenomena."  2017-03-22 2017-06-06 "['Leibovich', 'Barkai']"
1703.07601 "Direct measurement of nonequilibrium system entropy is consistent with
  Gibbs-Shannon form" cond-mat.stat-mech "Stochastic thermodynamics extends classical thermodynamics to small systems
in contact with one or more heat baths. It can account for the effects of
thermal fluctuations and describe systems far from thermodynamic equilibrium. A
basic assumption is that the expression for Shannon entropy is the appropriate
description for the entropy of a nonequilibrium system in such a setting. Here,
for the first time, we measure experimentally this function. Our system is a
micron-scale colloidal particle in water, in a virtual double-well potential
created by a feedback trap. We measure the work to erase a fraction of a bit of
information and show that it is bounded by the Shannon entropy for a two-state
system. Further, by measuring directly the reversibility of slow protocols, we
can distinguish unambiguously between protocols that can and cannot reach the
expected thermodynamic bounds."  2017-03-22 2017-05-25 "['Gavrilov', 'Chétrite', 'Bechhoefer']"
1703.07701 "Anisotropy of transport in bulk Rashba metals" cond-mat.str-el "The recent experimental discovery of three-dimensional (3D) materials hosting
a strong Rashba spin-orbit coupling calls for the theoretical investigation of
their transport properties. Here we study the zero temperature dc conductivity
of a 3D Rashba metal in the presence of static diluted impurities. We show
that, at variance with the two-dimensional case, in 3D systems spin-orbit
coupling affects dc charge transport in all density regimes. We find in
particular that the effect of spin-orbit interaction strongly depends on the
direction of the current, and we show that this yields strongly anisotropic
transport characteristics. In the dominant spin-orbit coupling regime where
only the lowest band is occupied, the SO-induced conductivity anisotropy is
governed entirely by the anomalous component of the renormalized current. We
propose that measurements of the conductivity anisotropy in bulk Rashba metals
may give a direct experimental assessment of the spin-orbit strength." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195164 2017-03-22 2017-05-31 "['Brosco', 'Grimaldi']"
1703.07740 "Effects of pressure and magnetic field on the re-entrant superconductor
  Eu(Fe$_{0.93}$Rh$_{0.07}$)$_2$As$_2$" cond-mat.supr-con "Electron-doped Eu(Fe$_{0.93}$Rh$_{0.07}$)$_2$As$_2$ has been systematically
studied by high pressure investigations of the magnetic and electrical
transport properties, in order to unravel the complex interplay of
superconductivity and magnetism. The compound reveals an exceedingly broad
re-entrant transition to the superconducting state between $T_{\rm{c,on}} =
19.8$ K and $T_{\rm{c,0}} = 5.2$ K due to a canted A-type antiferromagnetic
ordering of the Eu$^{2+}$ moments at $T_{\rm{N}} = 16.6$ K and a re-entrant
spin glass transition at $T_{\rm{SG}} = 14.1$ K. At ambient pressure evidences
for the coexistence of superconductivity and ferromagnetism could be observed,
as well as a magnetic-field-induced enhancement of the zero-resistance
temperature $T_{\rm{c,0}}$ up to $7.2$ K with small magnetic fields applied
parallel to the \textit{ab}-plane of the crystal. We attribute the
field-induced-enhancement of superconductivity to the suppression of the
ferromagnetic component of the Eu$^{2+}$ moments along the \textit{c}-axis,
which leads to a reduction of the orbital pair breaking effect. Application of
hydrostatic pressure suppresses the superconducting state around $14$ kbar
along with a linear temperature dependence of the resistivity, implying that a
non-Fermi liquid region is located at the boundary of the superconducting
phase. At intermediate pressure, an additional feature in the resistivity
curves is identified, which can be suppressed by external magnetic fields and
competes with the superconducting phase. We suggest that the effect of negative
pressure by the chemical Rh substitution in
Eu(Fe$_{0.93}$Rh$_{0.07}$)$_2$As$_2$ is partially reversed, leading to a
re-activation of the spin density wave." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195146 2017-03-20  "['Löhle', 'Baumgartner', 'Zapf', 'Jiao', 'Cao', 'Dressel']"
1703.07813 "Thermal conductance of the coupled-rotator chain: Influence of
  temperature and size" cond-mat.stat-mech "Thermal conductance of a homogeneous 1D nonlinear lattice system with
neareast neighbor interactions has recently been computationally studied in
detail by Li et al [Eur. Phys. J. B {\bf 88}, 182 (2015)], where its power-law
dependence on temperature $T$ for high temperatures is shown. Here, we address
its entire temperature dependence, in addition to its dependence on the size
$N$ of the system. We obtain a neat data collapse for arbitrary temperatures
and system sizes, and numerically show that the thermal conductance curve is
quite satisfactorily described by a fat-tailed $q$-Gaussian dependence on
$TN^{1/3}$ with $q \simeq 1.55$. Consequently, its $T \to\infty$ asymptotic
behavior is given by $T^{-\alpha}$ with $\alpha=2/(q-1) \simeq 3.64$." 10.1209/0295-5075/117/60004 2017-03-22  "['Li', 'Li', 'Tirnakli', 'Li', 'Tsallis']"
1703.08287 "First-principles study of spin texture and Fermi lines in Bi(111)
  multi-layer nanofilm" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "We have performed a fully relativistic first-principles density functional
calculation examining the surface state of bismuth (Bi) (111) multi-layer
nanofilm, with up to 20 Bi bilayers, and investigated the Rashba effect and
spin texture on the Bi surfaces. We have revealed a giant out-of-plane spin
states on the Fermi lines, and the maximum value of the out-of-plane spin
component being approximately 40% of the magnitude of the total spin. We have
also evaluated the Rashba parameter $\alpha_R \simeq 1.9 {\rm eV}\cdot$\AA
using the surface state bands which is buried in the bulk state, at -0.32 eV
below the Fermi energy."  2017-03-24 2017-06-02 "['Kotaka', 'Ishii', 'Saito']"
1703.08319 "Evolution of magnetic and dielectric properties in Sr-substituted high
  temperature multiferroic YBaCuFeO5" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We report the evolution of structural, magnetic and dielectric properties due
to partial substitution of Ba by Sr in the high temperature multiferroic
YBaCuFeO5. This compound exhibits ferroelectric and antiferromagnetic
transitions around 200 K and these two phenomena are presumed to be coupled
with each other. Our studies on magnetic and dielectric properties of the
YBa1-xSrxCuFeO5 (x = 0.0, 0.25 and 0.5) show that substitution of Sr shifts
magnetic transition towards higher temperature whereas dielectric transition to
lower temperature. These results points to the fact that magnetic and
dielectric transitions get decoupled as a result of chemical pressure in form
of Sr substitution. The nature of magnetodielectric coupling changes across the
series with the presence of higher order coupling terms. Additionally in these
compounds glassy dynamics of electric dipoles is observed at low temperatures." 10.1209/0295-5075/117/67006 2017-03-24  "['lal', 'Upadhyay', 'Mukherjee', 'Yadav']"
1703.08339 "Anderson localization of a Rydberg electron along a classical orbit" "physics.atom-ph cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.quant-gas quant-ph" "Anderson localization is related to exponential localization of a particle in
the configuration space in the presence of a disorder potential. Anderson
localization can be also observed in the momentum space and corresponds to
quantum suppression of classical diffusion in systems that are classically
chaotic. Another kind of Anderson localization has been recently proposed, i.e.
localization in the time domain due to the presence of {\it disorder} in time.
That is, the probability density for the detection of a system at a fixed
position in the configuration space is localized exponentially around a certain
moment of time if a system is driven by a force that fluctuates in time. We
show that an electron in a Rydberg atom, perturbed by a fluctuating microwave
field, Anderson localizes along a classical periodic orbit. In other words the
probability density for the detection of an electron at a fixed position on an
orbit is exponentially localized around a certain time moment. This phenomenon
can be experimentally observed." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.063402 2017-03-24 2017-05-12 "['Giergiel', 'Sacha']"
1703.08431 "Phase Diagram of $\alpha$-RuCl$_3$ in an in-plane Magnetic Field" cond-mat.str-el "The low-temperature magnetic phases in the layered honeycomb lattice material
$\alpha$-RuCl$_3$ have been studied as a function of in-plane magnetic field.
In zero field this material orders magnetically below 7 K with so-called zigzag
order within the honeycomb planes. Neutron diffraction data show that a
relatively small applied field of 2 T is sufficient to suppress the population
of the magnetic domain in which the zigzag chains run along the field
direction. We found that the intensity of the magnetic peaks due to zigzag
order is continuously suppressed with increasing field until their
disappearance at $\mu_o$H$_c$=8 T. At still higher fields (above 8 T) the
zigzag order is destroyed, while bulk magnetization and heat capacity
measurements suggest that the material enters a state with gapped magnetic
excitations. We discuss the magnetic phase diagram obtained in our study in the
context of a quantum phase transition." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.180411 2017-03-24  "['Sears', 'Zhao', 'Xu', 'Lynn', 'Kim']"
1703.08682 "Electronic structure of FeS" cond-mat.supr-con "Here we report the electronic structure of FeS, a recently identified
iron-based superconductor. Our high-resolution angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy studies show two hole-like ($\alpha$ and $\beta$) and two
electron-like ($\eta$ and $\delta$) Fermi pockets around the Brillouin zone
center and corner, respectively, all of which exhibit moderate dispersion along
$k_z$. However, a third hole-like band ($\gamma$) is not observed, which is
expected around the zone center from band calculations and is common in
iron-based superconductors. Since this band has the highest renormalization
factor and is known to be the most vulnerable to defects, its absence in our
data is likely due to defect scattering --- and yet superconductivity can exist
without coherent quasiparticles in the $\gamma$ band. This may help resolve the
current controversy on the superconducting gap structure of FeS. Moreover, by
comparing the $\beta$ bandwidths of various iron chalcogenides, including FeS,
FeSe$_{1-x}$S$_x$, FeSe, and FeSe$_{1-x}$ Te$_x$, we find that the $\beta$
bandwidth of FeS is the broadest. However, the band renormalization factor of
FeS is still quite large, when compared with the band calculations, which
indicates sizable electron correlations. This explains why the unconventional
superconductivity can persist over such a broad range of isovalent substitution
in FeSe$_{1-x}$Te$_{x}$ and FeSe$_{1-x}$S$_{x}$." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205127 2017-03-25  "['Miao', 'Niu', 'Xu', 'Yao', 'Chen', 'Ying', 'Li', 'Fang', 'Zhang', 'Ideta', 'Tanaka', 'Xie', 'Feng', 'Chen']"
1703.08949 "Spin-incoherent Luttinger liquid of one-dimensional spin-1
  Tonks-Girardeau Bose gas: Spin-dependent properties" cond-mat.quant-gas "Spin-incoherent Luttinger liquid (SILL) is a different universal class from
the Luttinger liquid.\ This difference results from the spin incoherence of the
system when the thermal energy of the system is higher than the spin excitation
energy.\ We consider one-dimensional spin-$1$ Bose gas in the SILL regime and
investigate its spin-dependent many-body properties.\ In Tonks-Girardeau limit,
we are able to write down the general wave functions in a harmonic trap.\ We
numerically calculate the spin-dependent (spin-plus, minus, and $0$) momentum
distributions in the sector of zero magnetization which allows to demonstrate
the most significant spin-incoherent feature compared to the spinless or
spin-polarized case.\ In contrast to the spinless Bose gas, the momentum
distributions are broadened and in the large momentum limit follow the same
asymptotic $1/p^4$ dependence but with reduced coefficients.\ While the density
matrices and momentum distributions differ between different spin components
for small $N$, at large $N$ they approach each other.\ We show these by
analytic arguments and numerical calculations up to $N$ $=$ $16$." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053631 2017-03-27  "['Jen', 'Yip']"
1703.09317 "Adaptive tracking of a time-varying field with a quantum sensor" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "Sensors based on single spins can enable magnetic field detection with very
high sensitivity and spatial resolution. Previous work has concentrated on
sensing of a constant magnetic field or a periodic signal. Here, we instead
investigate the problem of estimating a field with non-periodic variation
described by a Wiener process. We propose and study, by numerical simulations,
an adaptive tracking protocol based on Bayesian estimation. The tracking
protocol updates the probability distribution for the magnetic field, based on
measurement outcomes, and adapts the choice of sensing time and phase in real
time. By taking the statistical properties of the signal into account, our
protocol strongly reduces the required measurement time. This leads to a
reduction of the error in the estimation of a time-varying signal by up to a
factor 4 compared to protocols that do not take this information into account." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052348 2017-03-27 2017-05-05 "['Bonato', 'Berry']"
1703.09740 "Quantum quench dynamics" cond-mat.quant-gas "Quench dynamics is an active area of study encompassing condensed matter
physics and quantum information, with applications to cold-atomic gases and
pump-probe spectroscopy of materials. Recent theoretical progress in studying
quantum quenches is reviewed. Quenches in interacting one dimensional systems
as well as systems in higher spatial dimensions are covered. The appearance of
non-trivial steady states following a quench in exactly solvable models is
discussed, and the stability of these states to perturbations is described.
Proper conserving approximations needed to capture the onset of thermalization
at long times are outlined. The appearance of universal scaling for quenches
near critical points, and the role of the renormalization group in capturing
the transient regime, are reviewed. Finally the effect of quenches near
critical points on the dynamics of entanglement entropy and entanglement
statistics is discussed. The extraction of critical exponents from the
entanglement statistics is outlined."  2017-03-28 2017-05-27 ['Mitra']
1703.09814 "Few-Body Systems Capture Many-Body Physics: Tensor Network Approach" "cond-mat.str-el physics.comp-ph" "Due to the presence of strong correlations, theoretical or experimental
investigations of quantum many-body systems belong to the most challenging
tasks in modern physics. Stimulated by tensor networks, we propose a scheme of
constructing the few-body models that can be easily accessed by theoretical or
experimental means, to accurately capture the ground-state properties of
infinite many-body systems in higher dimensions. The general idea is to embed a
small bulk of the infinite model in an ""entanglement bath"" so that the
many-body effects can be faithfully mimicked. The approach we propose is
efficient, simple, flexible, sign-problem-free, and it directly accesses the
thermodynamic limit. The numerical results of the spin models on honeycomb and
simple cubic lattices show that the ground-state properties including quantum
phase transitions and the critical behaviors are accurately captured by only
$\mathcal{O}(10)$ physical and bath sites. Moreover, since the few-body
Hamiltonian only contains local interactions among a handful of sites, our work
provides new ways of studying the many-body phenomena in the infinite
strongly-correlated systems by mimicking them in the few-body experiments using
cold atoms/ions, or developing novel quantum devices by utilizing the many-body
features."  2017-03-28 2017-06-01 "['Ran', 'Piga', 'Peng', 'Su', 'Lewenstein']"
1703.10086 "Extended Kitaev chain with longer-range hopping and pairing" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.supr-con" "We consider the Kitaev chain model with finite and infinite range in the
hopping and pairing parameters, looking in particular at the appearance of
Majorana zero energy modes and massive edge modes. We study the system both in
the presence and in the absence of time reversal symmetry, by means of
topological invariants and exact diagonalization, disclosing very rich phase
diagrams. In particular, for extended hopping and pairing terms, we can get as
many Majorana modes at each end of the chain as the neighbors involved in the
couplings. Finally we generalize the transfer matrix approach useful to
calculate the zero-energy Majorana modes at the edges for a generic number of
coupled neighbors." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.195160 2017-03-29 2017-05-25 "['Alecce', ""Dell'Anna""]"
1703.10502 "Frustrated spin-1/2 molecular magnetism in the mixed-valence
  antiferromagnets Ba3MRu2O9 (M = In, Y, Lu)" cond-mat.str-el "We have performed magnetic susceptibility, heat capacity, muon spin
relaxation, and neutron scattering measurements on three members of the family
Ba3MRu2O9, where M = In, Y and Lu. These systems consist of mixed-valence Ru
dimers on a triangular lattice with antiferromagnetic interdimer exchange.
Although previous work has argued that charge order within the dimers or
intradimer double exchange plays an important role in determining the magnetic
properties, our results suggest that the dimers are better described as
molecular units due to significant orbital hybridization, resulting in one
spin-1/2 moment distributed equally over the two Ru sites. These molecular
building blocks form a frustrated, quasi-two-dimensional triangular lattice.
Our zero and longitudinal field muSR results indicate that the molecular
moments develop a collective, static magnetic ground state, with oscillations
of the zero field muon spin polarization indicative of long-range magnetic
order in the Lu sample. The static magnetism is much more disordered in the Y
and In samples, but they do not appear to be conventional spin glasses." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184424 2017-03-30  "['Ziat', 'Aczel', 'Sinclair', 'Chen', 'Zhou', 'Williams', 'Stone', 'Verrier', 'Quilliam']"
1704.00263 "Density wave like transport anomalies in surface doped Na$_{2}$IrO$_3$" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We report that the surface conductivity of Na$_{2}$IrO$_3$ crystal is
extremely tunable by high energy Ar plasma etching and can be tuned from
insulating to metallic with increasing etching time. Temperature dependent
electrical transport for the metallic samples show signatures of first order
phase transitions which are consistent with charge or spin density wave like
phase transitions recently predicted theoretically. Additionally,
grazing-incidence small-angle x-ray scattering (GISAXS) reveal that the room
temperature surface structure of Na$_{2}$IrO$_3$ does not change after plasma
etching." 10.1063/1.4974916 2017-04-02 2017-05-26 "['Mehlawat', 'Singh']"
1704.01020 "How roughness affects the depletion mechanism" cond-mat.soft "We develop a simple model, in the spirit of the Asakura-Oosawa theory, able
to describe the effects of surface roughness on the depletion potential as a
function of a small set of parameters. The resulting explicit expressions are
easily computed, without free parameters, for a wide range of physically
interesting conditions. Comparison with the recent numerical simulations [M.
Kamp et al., Langmuir, 2016, 32, 1233] shows an encouraging agreement and
allows to predict the onset of colloidal aggregation in dilute suspensions of
rough particles. Furthermore, the model proves to be suitable to investigate
the role of the geometry of the roughness."  2017-04-04 2017-05-26 "['Anzini', 'Parola']"
1704.01394 "An open-source platform to study uniaxial stress effects on nanoscale
  devices" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.ins-det" "We present an automatic measurement platform that enables the
characterization of nanodevices by electrical transport and optical
spectroscopy as a function of uniaxial stress. We provide insights into and
detailed descriptions of the mechanical device, the substrate design and
fabrication, and the instrument control software, which is provided under
open-source license. The capability of the platform is demonstrated by
characterizing the piezo-resistance of an InAs nanowire device using a
combination of electrical transport and Raman spectroscopy. The advantages of
this measurement platform are highlighted by comparison with state-of-the-art
piezo-resistance measurements in InAs nanowires. We envision that the
systematic application of this methodology will provide new insights into the
physics of nanoscale devices and novel materials for electronics, and thus
contribute to the assessment of the potential of strain as a technology booster
for nanoscale electronics." 10.1063/1.4983573 2017-04-05  "['Signorello', 'Schraff', 'Zellekens', 'Drechsler', 'Buerge', 'Steinauer', 'Heller', 'Tschudy', 'Riel']"
1704.01627 "Phase transition of ultracold atoms immersed in a BEC vortex lattice" cond-mat.quant-gas "We investigate the quantum phases of ultracold atoms trapped in a vortex
lattice using a mixture of two bosonic species (A and B), in the presence of an
artificial gauge field. Heavy atoms of species B are confined in the array of
vortices generated in species A, and they are described through a Bose-Hubbard
model. In contrast to the optical-lattice setups, the vortex lattice has an
intrinsic dynamics, given by its Tkachenko modes. Including these quantum
fluctuations in the effective model for B atoms yields an extended Bose-Hubbard
model, with an additional ""phonon""-mediated long-range attraction. The
ground-state phase diagram of this model is computed through a variational
ansatz and the quantum Monte Carlo technique. When compared with the ordinary
Bose-Hubbard case, the long-range interatomic attraction causes a shift and
resizing of the Mott-insulator regions. Finally, we discuss the experimental
feasibility of the proposed scheme, which relies on the proper choice of the
atomic species and on a large control of physical parameters, like the
scattering lengths and the vorticity." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.053639 2017-04-05  "['Chaviguri', 'Comparin', 'Bagnato', 'Caracanhas']"
1704.01739 "Heat fluctuations of Brownian oscillators in nonstationary processes:
  fluctuation theorem and condensation transition" cond-mat.stat-mech "We study analytically the probability distribution of the heat released by an
ensemble of harmonic oscillators to the thermal bath, in the nonequilibrium
relaxation process following a temperature quench. We focus on the asymmetry
properties of the heat distribution in the nonstationary dynamics, in order to
study the forms taken by the Fluctuation Theorem as the number of degrees of
freedom is varied. After analysing in great detail the cases of one and two
oscillators, we consider the limit of a large number of oscillators, where the
behavior of fluctuations is enriched by a condensation transition with a
nontrivial phase diagram, characterized by reentrant behavior. Numerical
simulations confirm our analytical findings. We also discuss and highlight how
concepts borrowed from the study of fluctuations in equilibrium under symmetry
breaking conditions [Gaspard, J. Stat. Mech. P08021 (2012)] turn out to be
quite useful in understanding the deviations from the standard Fluctuation
Theorem." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052138 2017-04-06  "['Crisanti', 'Sarracino', 'Zannetti']"
1704.02229 "Spin current and second harmonic generation in non-collinear magnetic
  systems: the hydrodynamic model" cond-mat.other "We report a theoretical study of the second harmonic generation in a
noncollinearly magnetized conductive medium with equilibrium spin current. The
hydrodynamic model is used to unravel the mechanism of a novel effect of the
double frequency signal generation due to the spin current. According to our
calculations, this second harmonic response appears due to the ""non-adiabatic""
spin polarization of the conduction electrons induced by the oscillations in
the non-uniform magnetization forced by the electric field of the
electromagnetic wave. Together with the linear velocity response this leads to
the generation of the double frequency spin current. This spin current is
converted to the electric current via the inverse Spin Hall effect, and the
double-frequency electric current emits the second harmonic radiation."  2017-04-07 2017-05-30 "['Karashtin', 'Fraerman']"
1704.02691 "Evaluating the electron density model by applying an imaginary
  modification" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "A function has been proposed to evaluate the electron density model
constructed by inverse Fourier transform using the observed structure
amplitudes and trial phase set. The strategy of this function is applying an
imaginary electron density modification to the model, and then measuring how
well the calculated structure amplitudes of the modified model matches the
expected structure amplitudes for the modified correct model. Since the correct
model is not available in advance, a method has been developed to estimate the
structure amplitudes of the modified correct model. With the estimated
structure amplitudes of the modified correct model, the evaluation function can
be calculated approximately. Limited tests on simulated diffraction data
indicate that this evaluation function may be valid at the data resolution
better than 2.5 {\AA}."  2017-04-09 2017-06-02 "['Li', 'He', 'Zhang']"
1704.02877 "Quantum sensors for the generating functional of interacting quantum
  field theories" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.str-el hep-lat" "Difficult problems described in terms of interacting quantum fields evolving
in real time or out of equilibrium are abound in condensed-matter and
high-energy physics. Addressing such problems via controlled experiments in
atomic, molecular, and optical physics would be a breakthrough in the field of
quantum simulations. In this work, we present a quantum-sensing protocol to
measure the generating functional of an interacting quantum field theory and,
with it, all the relevant information about its in or out of equilibrium
phenomena. Our protocol can be understood as a collective interferometric
scheme based on a generalization of the notion of Schwinger sources in quantum
field theories, which make it possible to probe the generating functional. We
show that our scheme can be realized in crystals of trapped ions acting as
analog quantum simulators of self-interacting scalar quantum field theories."  2017-04-10 2017-06-01 "['Bermudez', 'Aarts', 'Müller']"
1704.03424 "Mechanical Flexible Two-Dimensional Ferroelectric BiN from
  First-Principles Prediction" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Ferroelectric, electronic, and optical properties in two-dimensional (2D)
material BiN with phos- phorene structure have been studied with the help of
density functional theory and modern Berry phase ferroelectric method. Both our
zero K phonon spectrum and ab-initial molecular dynamics simulations indicate
that BiN is a room temperature stable 2D ferroelectric with polarization as
large as 580 pC/m. Further uniaxial strain engineering studies show that the
polarization in such BiN can be easily tuned from [100] to [010] direction by
small strains consuming 10.5 meV/f.u. barrier energy through a saddle phase.
Such phase transitions in this 2D BiN makes its lattice constant can change in
a very large range compare to other non-ferroelectric materials. Moreover,
while applying the uniaxial strains, the energy band gap change between direct
to indirect has been identified. A unique peak origins from the anisotropic
features has also been found in our optical calculations. All these significant
ferroelectric, electronic, and optical features make us believe that such
two-dimensional BiN can make a promising candidate in stretchable and optical
electronic devices."  2017-04-11 2017-05-26 "['Chen', 'Zhang', 'Liu']"
1704.04284 "Unexpected validity of Schottky's conjecture for two-stage field
  emitters: a response via Schwarz-Christoffel transformation" cond-mat.mes-hall "The electric field in the vicinity of the top of an emitter with a profile
consisting of a triangular protrusion on an infinite line is analytically
obtained when this system is under an external uniform electric field. The same
problem is also studied when the profile features a two-stage system,
consisting of a triangular protrusion centered on the top of a rectangular one
on a line. These problems are approached by using a Schwarz-Christoffel
conformal mapping and the validity of Schottky's conjecture (SC) is discussed.
We provide an analytical proof of SC when the dimensions of the upper-stage
structure are much smaller than the lower-stage ones, for large enough aspect
ratios and considering that the field enhancement factor (FEF) of the
rectangular structure is evaluated on the center of the top of the structure,
while the FEF of the triangular stage is evaluated near the upper corner of the
protrusion. The numerical solution of our exact equations shows that SC may
remain valid even when both stages feature dimensions from the same order of
magnitude, reinforcing the validity of SC for multi-stage field emitters. The
applicability of our results to low emittance devices is also discussed."  2017-04-13 2017-05-27 "['Marcelino', 'de Assis', 'de Castilho']"
1704.04482 "Observation of a quantum dipole liquid state in an organic
  quasi-two-dimensional material" cond-mat.str-el "A metal in which the repulsion between conduction electrons dominates over
their kinetic energy becomes an insulator at low temperatures. Such Mott
insulators are commonly pictured with electrons completely localized on lattice
sites. Their low-energy physics involves spins only. New degrees of freedom can
emerge in molecule-based Mott insulators as electrons occupy extended molecular
orbitals. In this work we experimentally demonstrate an existence of a new
emergent state {\it quantum dipole liquid} in a triangular lattice molecular-
based Mott insulator $\kappa$-(BEDT-TTF)$_2$Hg(SCN)$_2$Br. Here, when in the
Mott insulating state electrons localize on extend lattice sites, they form
electric dipoles which do not order at low temperatures and fluctuate with a
frequency we detect experimentally in Raman spectroscopy experiments. The heat
capacity and Raman scattering response of this quantum dipole liquid supports a
scenario where the composite spin and electric dipole degrees of freedom remain
fluctuating down to the lowest temperatures."  2017-04-14 2017-06-01 "['Hassan', 'Cunningham', 'Mourigal', 'Zhilyaeva', 'Torunova', 'Lyubovskaya', 'Drichko']"
1704.05750 "Crystal field excitations and magnons: their roles in oxyselenides
  Pr2O2M2OSe2 (M = Mn, Fe)" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We present the results of neutron scattering experiments to study the crystal
and magnetic structures of the Mott-insulating transition metal oxyselenides
Pr2O2M2OSe2 (M = Mn, Fe). The structural role of the non-Kramers Pr3+ ion is
investigated and analysis of Pr3+ crystal field excitations performed.
Long-range order of Pr3+ moments in Pr2O2Fe2OSe2 can be induced by an applied
magnetic field." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174441 2017-04-19  "['Oogarah', 'Stockdale', 'Stock', 'Evans', 'Wills', 'Taylor', 'McCabe']"
1704.05965 "Realization of room-temperature ferromagnetic semiconducting state in
  graphene monolayer" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "Room-temperature ferromagnetic semiconductor is vital in nonvolatile digital
circuits and it can provide an idea system where we can make use of both charge
and spin of electrons. However, seeking room-temperature ferromagnetic
semiconductors is still just an appealing idea that has never been realized in
practice up to now. Here we demonstrate that graphene monolayer, hybridized
with underlying Ni substrate, is the room-temperature ferromagnetic
semiconductor that has been continuously searched for decades. Our
spin-polarized scanning tunnelling microscopy (STM) experiments, complemented
by first-principles calculations, demonstrate explicitly that the interaction
between graphene and the Ni substrate generates a large gap in graphene and
simultaneously leads to a relatively shift between majority- and minority-spin
bands. Consequently, the graphene sheet on Ni substrate exhibits a
spin-polarized gap with energy of several tens meV even at room-temperature.
This result makes the science and applications of room-temperature
ferromagnetic semiconductors achievable and raises hopes of graphene-based
novel information technologies."  2017-04-19 2017-06-03 "['Zhang', 'Sui', 'Ma', 'Duan', 'He']"
1704.06220 "Hydrogenating VO2 with protons in acid solution" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Hydrogenation is an effective way to tune material property1-5. Traditional
techniques for doping hydrogen atoms into solid materials are very costly due
to the need for noble metal catalysis and high-temperature/pressure annealing
treatment or even high energy proton implantation in vacuum condition5-8. Acid
solution contains plenty of freely-wandering protons, but it is difficult to
act as a proton source for doping, since the protons always cause corrosions by
destroying solid lattices before residing into them. Here we achieve a facile
way to hydrogenate monoclinic vanadium dioxide (VO2) with protons in acid
solution by attaching suitable metal to it. Considering the Schottky contact at
the metal/VO2 interface, electrons flow from metal to VO2 due to workfunction
difference and simultaneously attract free protons in acid solution to
penetrate, forming the hydrogens dopants inside VO2 lattice. This metal-acid
treatment constitutes an electron-proton co-doping strategy, which not only
protects the VO2 lattice from corrosion, but also causes pronounced
insulator-to-metal transitions. In addition, the metal-acid induced hydrogen
doping behavior shows a ripple effect, and it can spread contagiously up to
wafer-size area (>2 inch) even triggered by a tiny metal particle attachment
(~1.0mm). This will stimulate a new way of simple and cost-effective atomic
doping technique for some other oxide materials."  2017-04-20 2017-06-02 "['Chen', 'Wang', 'Chen', 'Ren', 'Wang', 'Zhang', 'Lu', 'Jiang', 'Zou', 'Luo']"
1704.06315 "Two-Dimensional Homogeneous Fermi Gases" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.other" "We report on the experimental realization of homogeneous two-dimensional (2D)
Fermi gases trapped in a box potential. In contrast to harmonically trapped
gases, these homogeneous 2D systems are ideally suited to probe local as well
as non-local properties of strongly interacting manybody systems. As a first
measurement, we use a local probe to extract the equation of state (EOS) of a
non-interacting Fermi gas. We then perform matter wave focusing to extract its
momentum distribution and directly observe Pauli blocking in a near unity
occupation of momentum states. Finally, we measure the momentum distribution of
strongly interacting homogeneous 2D gases in the crossover between attractively
interacting fermions and deeply-bound bosonic molecules."  2017-04-20 2017-05-29 "['Hueck', 'Luick', 'Sobirey', 'Siegl', 'Lompe', 'Moritz']"
1704.06776 "Polarization selectivity of charge localization induced by 7-fs nearly
  single-cycle light-field in an organic metal" cond-mat.str-el "Polarization selectivity of light-field-induced charge localization was
investigated in an organic metal alpha-(BEDT-TTF)2I3 with a triangular lattice.
Dependences of transient reflectivity spectra on polarizations of the 7-fs pump
and probe lights indicate that a short-range charge order (CO) is efficiently
induced from the metallic phase for the pump polarization perpendicular to the
1010-type CO axis. Numerical solution of a time-dependent Schrodinger equation
clarified that the 1010-CO is induced by field-induced re-distribution of
charges cooperating with competing inter-site Coulomb repulsions in the
triangular lattice." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201105 2017-04-22  "['Kawakami', 'Yoneyama', 'Amano', 'Itoh', 'Yamamoto', 'Nakamura', 'Kishida', 'Sasaki', 'Ishihara', 'Tanaka', 'Yonemitsu', 'Iwai']"
1704.07103 "Electron and phonon transport in twisted graphene nanoribbons" cond-mat.mes-hall "We theoretically study the electrical, thermal and thermoelectric transport
properties of graphene nanoribbons under torsional deformations. The modelling
follows a nonequilibrium Green's function approach in the ballistic transport
regime, describing the electrical and phononic properties through
\textit{ab-initio} density functional theory and empirical interatomic
potentials, respectively. We consider two different types of deformations, a
continuous twist of a given angle applied to the nanoribbon, and two
consecutive twists applied in opposite angular directions. The numerical
results are carefully analysed in terms of spatially-resolved electron
eigenchannels, polarization-dependent phonon transmission and thermoelectric
figure-of-merit." 10.1088/1361-6463/aa6fd3 2017-04-24  "['Antidormi', 'Royo', 'Rurali']"
1704.07725 "Geometric Nature Rules Structure/Potential-Energy Correspondence" cond-mat.dis-nn "When one measures microscopic structure at given temperature, one might
expect that there can be a variety of choice in Potential Energy (PE) to
reproduce the structure as thermodynamically equilibrium state. Whereas we have
multiple approaches to construct landscape of PE from measured structure, we
still face remainning challenges typically found in inverse problem: Uniqueness
and stability of the predicted PE are generally unknown, coming mainly from
complex, non-analytical Structure/PE (SPE) correspondence. Here we tuckle these
problems for classical many-body systems, which leads to surprising finding
that uniqueness and stability in SPE correspondence can be universally
well-characterized purely by underlying geometric nature (e.g., type of lattice
for crystalline solids). Here, an introduced concept of harmonicity in
structural degree of freedom derived from an exactly solvable system plays an
central role. The present findings make significant advances in understanding
the SPE correspondence including (i) Let us a priori know which measured
structures can be appropriate to inversely determine PE of the system within
given accuracy, without any thermodynamic information such as energy or
temperature, and (ii) enabling to confirm validity of effective Hamiltonian
constructed from other approaches including ab initio calculations."  2017-04-25 2017-05-30 ['Yuge']
1704.07767 "The Emergence of Consensus" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.stat-mech cs.MA cs.SI q-bio.PE" "The origin of population-scale coordination has puzzled philosophers and
scientists for centuries. Recently, game theory, evolutionary approaches and
complex systems science have provided quantitative insights on the mechanisms
of social consensus. This paper overviews the main dimensions over which the
debate has unfolded and discusses some representative results, with a focus on
those situations in which consensus emerges `spontaneously' in absence of
centralised institutions. Covered topics include the macroscopic consequences
of the different microscopic rules of behavioural contagion, the role of social
networks, and the mechanisms that prevent the formation of a consensus or alter
it after it has emerged. Special attention is devoted to the recent wave of
experiments on the emergence of consensus in social systems."  2017-04-25  ['Baronchelli']
1704.07795 "In-plane spectrum in superlattices" cond-mat.mes-hall "We show that the existing theory does not give correct in-plane spectrum of
superlattices at small in-plane momentum. Magneto-absorption experiments
demonstrate that the energy range of the parabolic region of the spectrum near
the electron subband bottom is by the order of magnitude lower than the value
predicted by the traditional approach. We developed a modified theory according
to which the energy range of the parabolic region and carrier in-plane
effective masses are determined by the effective bandgap of the superlattice
rather than by the bulk bandgaps of the superlattice layers. The results of the
new theory are consistent with the experiment." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.235401 2017-04-25  "['Laikhtman', 'Suchalkin', 'Belenky']"
1704.07967 "Transfer of magnetic order and anisotropy through epitaxial integration
  of 3$d$ and 4$f$ spin systems" cond-mat.str-el "Resonant x-ray scattering at the Dy $M_5$ and Ni $L_3$ absorption edges was
used to probe the temperature and magnetic field dependence of magnetic order
in epitaxial LaNiO$_3$-DyScO$_3$ superlattices. For superlattices with 2 unit
cell thick LaNiO$_3$ layers, a commensurate spiral state develops in the Ni
spin system below 100 K. Upon cooling below $T_{ind} = 18$ K, Dy-Ni exchange
interactions across the LaNiO$_3$-DyScO$_3$ interfaces induce collinear
magnetic order of interfacial Dy moments as well as a reorientation of the Ni
spins to a direction dictated by the strong magneto-crystalline anisotropy of
Dy. This transition is reversible by an external magnetic field of 3 T.
Tailored exchange interactions between rare-earth and transition-metal ions
thus open up new perspectives for the manipulation of spin structures in
metal-oxide heterostructures and devices." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.207203 2017-04-26  "['Bluschke', 'Frano', 'Schierle', 'Minola', 'Hepting', 'Christiani', 'Logvenov', 'Weschke', 'Benckiser', 'Keimer']"
1704.08463 "Magnetic and thermodynamic properties of Cu$_x$TiSe$_2$ single crystals" cond-mat.supr-con "We present a detailed study of the phase diagram of copper intercalated
TiSe$_2$ single crystals, combining local Hall-probe magnetometry, tunnel diode
oscillator technique (TDO), specific-heat, and angle-resolved photoemission
spectroscopy measurements. A series of the Cu$_x$TiSe$_2$ samples from three
different sources with various copper content $x$ and superconducting critical
temperatures $T_c$ have been investigated. We first show that the vortex
penetration mechanism is dominated by geometrical barriers enabling a precise
determination of the lower critical field, $H_{c1}$. We then show that the
temperature dependence of the superfluid density deduced from magnetic
measurements (both $H_{c1}$ and TDO techniques) clearly suggests the existence
of a small energy gap in the system, with a coupling strength $2\Delta_s \sim
[2.4-2.8]k_BT_c$, regardless of the copper content, in puzzling contradiction
with specific heat measurements which can be well described by one single large
gap $2\Delta_l \sim [3.7-3.9]k_BT_c$. Finally, our measurements reveal a
non-trivial doping dependence of the condensation energy, which remains to be
understood." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174512 2017-04-27 2017-06-05 "['Pribulová', 'Medvecká', 'Kačmarčík', 'Komanický', 'Klein', 'Rodière', 'Levy-Bertrand', 'Michon', 'Marcenat', 'Husaníková', 'Cambel', 'Šoltýs', 'Karapetrov', 'Borisenko', 'Evtushinsky', 'Berger', 'Samuely']"
1704.08626 "Epidemic Extinction Paths in Complex Networks" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.dis-nn" "We study the extinction of long-lived epidemics on finite complex networks
induced by intrinsic noise. Applying analytical techniques to the stochastic
Susceptible-Infected-Susceptible model, we predict the distribution of large
fluctuations, the most probable, or optimal path through a network that leads
to a disease-free state from an endemic state, and the average extinction time
in general configurations. Our predictions agree with Monte-Carlo simulations
on several networks, including synthetic weighted and degree-distributed
networks with degree correlations, and an empirical high school contact
network. In addition, our approach quantifies characteristic scaling patterns
for the optimal path and distribution of large fluctuations, both near and away
from the epidemic threshold, in networks with heterogeneous eigenvector
centrality and degree distributions." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052317 2017-04-27  "['Hindes', 'Schwartz']"
1704.08655 "Temperature dependence of the surface plasmon resonance in small
  electron gas fragments, self consistent field approximation" cond-mat.mes-hall "The temperature dependence of the surface plasmon resonance in small metal
spheres is calculated using an electron gas model within the Random Phase
Approximation. The calculation is mainly devoted to the study of spheres with
diameters up to at least 10 nm, where quantum effects can still be relevant and
simple plasmon pole approximation for the dielectric function is no more
appropriate. We find a possible blue shift of the plasmon resonance position
when the temperature is increased while keeping the size of the sphere fixed.
The blue shift is appreciable only when the temperature is a large fraction of
the Fermi energy. These results provide a guide for pump and probe experiments
with a high time resolution, and tailored to study the excited electron system
before thermalisation with the lattice takes place." 10.1016/j.ssc.2017.05.014 2017-04-27  "['Fasolato', 'Sacchetti', 'Tozzi', 'Petrillo']"
1704.08684 "Periodic Anderson model with Holstein phonons for the description of the
  Cerium volume collapse" cond-mat.str-el "In order to better understand the effect of the electron-phonon interaction
on the volume collapse transition of Cerium, we study the periodic Anderson
model with coupling between Holstein phonons and electrons in the conduction
band. We find that the electron-phonon coupling can enhance the volume
collapse, which is consistent with experiments. Although we start with the
Kondo Volume Collapse scenario in mind, our results capture some interesting
features of the Mott scenario, such as a gap in the conduction electron spectra
which grows with the effective electron-phonon coupling."  2017-04-27 2017-05-31 "['Li', 'Yang', 'Zhang', 'Tam', 'Jarrell', 'Moreno']"
1704.08780 "Superconducting States for Semi-Dirac Fermions at Zero and Finite
  Magnetic Fields" cond-mat.supr-con "We address the superconducting singlet state of semi-Dirac fermions at zero
and finite magnetic field. Semi-Dirac fermions are two dimensional
quasiparticles that disperse linearly in one direction and parabolically in the
other. For systems that have uniaxial anisotropy, we show that the
electromagnetic response to an external magnetic flux is extremely anisotropic
near the quantum critical point. In the quantum critical regime and above a
critical magnetic field, we show that the superconductor forms a novel
\emph{smetic} state, with a stripe pattern of flux domains. We propose that the
vicinity of the superconductor quantum critical point may be accessed with
electric field and strain effects."  2017-04-27 2017-05-31 "['Uchoa', 'Seo']"
1704.08961 "Hanle model of a spin-orbit coupled Bose-Einstein condensate of excitons
  in semiconductor quantum wells" cond-mat.quant-gas "We present a theoretical model of a driven-dissipative spin-orbit coupled
Bose-Einstein condensate of indirect excitons in semiconductor quantum wells
(QW's). Our steady-state solution of the problem shares analogies with the
Hanle effect in an optical orientation experiment. The role of the spin pump in
our case is played by boson stimulated scattering into the linearly-polarized
ground state and the depolarization occurs as a result of long-range exchange
interaction between electrons and holes. Our theory agrees with the recent
experiment [A. A. High et al., Phys. Rev. Lett. 110, 246403 (2013)], where
spontaneous emergence of spatial coherence and polarization texture have been
observed. As a complementary test, we discuss a configuration where an external
magnetic field is applied in the structure plane."  2017-04-28 2017-05-30 "['Andreev', 'Nalitov']"
1705.00262 "Condensation of Lee-Yang zeros in scalar field theory" "hep-th cond-mat.stat-mech" "We show that, at the critical temperature, there is a class of Lee-Yang zeros
of the partition function in a general scalar field theory, which location
scales with the size of the system with a characteristic exponent expressed in
terms of the isothermal critical exponent $\delta$. In the thermodynamic limit
the zeros belonging to this class condense to the critical point {\zeta}=1 on
the real axis in the complex fugacity plane while the complementary set of
zeros (with Re {\zeta} < 1) covers uniformly the unit circle. Although the
aforementioned class degenerates to a single point for an infinite system, when
the size is finite it dominates in the partition function and determines the
self-similar structure (fractal geometry, scaling laws) of the critical system.
This property opens up the perspective to formulate finite-size scaling theory
in effective QCD, near the chiral critical point, in terms of the location of
Lee-Yang zeros." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052145 2017-04-29  "['Antoniou', 'Diakonos', 'Maintas', 'Tsagkarakis']"
1705.00363 "Pinning effects on self-heating and flux-flow instability in
  superconducting films near $T_{c}$" cond-mat.supr-con "The effect of pinning on self-heating triggering the Larkin-Ovchinnikov (LO)
flux-flow instability (FFI) in superconducting thin films is theoretically
investigated. The problem is considered relying upon the Bezuglyj-Shklovskij
(BS) generalization of the LO theory, accounting for a finite heat removal from
the quasiparticles at temperature $T^\ast$ to the bath at temperature $T_0$.
The FFI critical parameters, namely the current density $j^{\ast}$, the
electric field $E^{\ast}$, the power density $P^{\ast}$, and the vortex
velocity $v^{\ast}$ are calculated and graphically analyzed as functions of the
magnetic field and the pinning strength. With increasing pinning strength at a
fixed magnetic field value $E^{\ast}$ \emph{decreases}, $j^{\ast}$
\emph{increases}, while $P^{\ast}$ and $T^{\ast}$ \emph{remain practically
constant}. Vortex pinning may hence be the cause for eventual discrepancies
between experiments on superconductors with \emph{strong pinning} and the
generalized LO and BS results." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184517 2017-04-30 2017-05-11 "['Shklovskij', 'Nazipova', 'Dobrovolskiy']"
1705.00365 "Measuring Holographic Entanglement Entropy on a Quantum Simulator" "quant-ph cond-mat.str-el gr-qc hep-th" "Anti-de Sitter/conformal field theory (AdS/CFT) correspondence is one of the
most promising realizations of holographic principle towards quantum gravity.
The recent development of a discrete version of AdS/CFT correspondence in terms
of tensor networks motivates one to simulate and demonstrate AdS/CFT
correspondence on quantum simulators. We achieve this goal indeed, in this
work, on a six-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance quantum simulator. We
demonstrate experimentally the discrete AdS/CFT correspondence, under realistic
noises, by measuring the relevant entanglement entropies on the corresponding
tensor network state. The fidelity of our experimentally prepared tensor
network state is 85.0% via full state tomography and rises to 93.7% if the
signal's decay due to decoherence is taken into account. Our experiment serves
as the basic module of simulating more complex tensor network states that
exhibit AdS/CFT correspondence. As the initial experimental attempt to study
AdS/CFT via quantum information processing, our work opens up new avenues
exploring quantum gravity phenomena on quantum simulators."  2017-04-30  "['Li', 'Han', 'Long', 'Wan', 'Lu', 'Zeng', 'Laflamme']"
1705.00630 "Influence maximization on correlated networks through community
  identification" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.stat-mech cs.SI" "The identification of the minimal set of nodes that maximizes the propagation
of information is one of the most important problems in network science. In
this paper, we introduce a new method to find the set of initial spreaders to
maximize the information propagation in complex networks. We evaluate this
method in assortative networks and verify that degree-degree correlation plays
a fundamental role on the spreading dynamics. Simulation results show that our
algorithm is statistically similar, in terms of the average size of outbreaks,
to the greedy approach. However, our method is much less time consuming than
the greedy algorithm."  2017-05-01 2017-06-04 "['Vega-Oliveros', 'Costa', 'Rodrigues']"
1705.00827 "The Spin-Reorientation Transition in TmFeO3" cond-mat.str-el "X-ray magnetic circular and linear dichroism (XMCD and XMLD) have been used
to investigate the Fe magnetic response during the spin reorientation
transition (SRT) in TmFeO3. These experiments are complemented with resonant
magnetic diffraction experiments at the Tm M5 edge to study simultaneously the
induced magnetic order in the Tm 4f shell and the behavior of the Tm orbitals
through the SRT. Comparing the Fe XMLD results with neutron diffraction and
magnetization measurements on the same sample indicate that the SRT has an
enhanced temperature range in the near surface region. This view is supported
by the resonant soft x-ray diffraction results at the Tm M5 edge. These find an
induced magnetic moment on the Tm sites, which is well-described by a dipolar
mean field model originating from the Fe moments. Even though such a model can
describe the 4f response in the experiments, it is insufficient to describe the
SRT even when considering a change in the 4f anisotropy. Moreover, the results
of the Fe XMCD are indicative of a decoupling of spin canting and
antiferromagnetic spin rotation in the near surface regime close to the SRT,
which remains to be understood."  2017-05-02 2017-05-26 "['Staub', 'Rettig', 'Bothschafter', 'Windsor', 'Ramakrishnan', 'Avula-Venkata', 'Dreiser', 'Piamonteze', 'Scagnoli', 'Mukherjee', 'Niedermayer', 'Medarde', 'Pomjakushina']"
1705.00877 "Driven Brownian particle as a paradigm for a nonequilibrium heat bath:
  Effective temperature and cyclic work extraction" cond-mat.stat-mech "We apply the concept of a frequency-dependent effective temperature based on
the fluctuation-dissipation ratio to a driven Brownian particle in a
nonequilibrium steady state. Using this system as a thermostat for a weakly
coupled harmonic oscillator, the oscillator thermalizes according to a
canonical distribution at the respective effective temperature across the
entire frequency spectrum. By turning the oscillator from a passive
""thermometer"" into a heat engine, we realize the cyclic extraction of work from
a single thermal reservoir, which is feasible only due to its nonequilibrium
nature." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.050103 2017-05-02  "['Wulfert', 'Oechsle', 'Speck', 'Seifert']"
1705.01086 "Comparison of Gabay-Toulouse and de Almeida-Thouless instabilities for
  the spin glass XY model in a field on sparse random graphs" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech" "Vector spin glasses are known to show two different kinds of phase
transitions in presence of an external field: the so-called de Almeida-Thouless
and Gabay-Toulouse lines. In the literature both critical lines have been
computed only for fully connected models, which are known to show some
unphysical behaviors (e. g. the divergence of these critical lines in the
zero-temperature limit). Here we compute analytically these critical lines for
XY spin glasses on random regular graphs. We discuss the different nature of
these phase transitions and the dependence of the critical behavior on the
field distribution. We also study the crossover between the two different
critical behaviors."  2017-05-02 2017-05-30 "['Lupo', 'Ricci-Tersenghi']"
1705.01125 "Edge Trapping of Exciton-Polariton Condensates in Etched Pillars" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "In this letter, we present a study of the condensation of exciton-polaritons
in large etched pillar structures that exhibit shallow edge trapping. The
$\approx$ 100 $\mu$m $\times$ 100 $\mu$m pillars were fabricated using
photolithography and a BCl$_3$/Cl$_2$ reactive ion etch. A low energy region
emerged along the etched edge, with the minima $\approx$ 7 $\mu$m from the
outer edge. The depth of the trap was 0.5-1.5 meV relative to the level central
region, with the deepest trapping at the corners. We were able to produce a
Bose-Einstein condensate in the trap near the edges and corners by pumping
non-resonantly in the middle of the pillar. This condensate began as a set of
disconnected condensates at various points along the edges, but then became a
single mono-energetic condensate as the polariton density was increased.
Similar edge traps could be used to produce shallow 1D traps along edges or
other more complex traps using various etch geometries and scales." 10.1063/1.4983832 2017-05-02 2017-05-05 "['Myers', 'Wuenschell', 'Ozden', 'Beaumariage', 'Snoke', 'Pfeiffer', 'West']"
1705.01232 "Single array of magnetic vortex disks uses in-plane anisotropy to create
  different logic gates" cond-mat.mes-hall "Using micromagnetic simulation, we show that in-plane uniaxial magnetic
anisotropy (IPUA) can be used to obtain FAN-OUT, AND and OR gates in an array
of coupled disks with magnetic vortex configuration. First, we studied the
influence of the direction of application of the IPUA on the energy transfer
time ({\tau}) between two identical coupled nanodisks. We found that when the
direction of the IPUA is along the x axis the magnetic interaction increases,
allowing shorter values of {\tau}, while the IPUA along the y direction has the
opposite effect. The magnetic interactions between the nanodisks along x and y
directions (the coupling integrals) as a function of the uniaxial anisotropy
constant (K {\sigma} ) were obtained using a simple dipolar model. Next, we
demonstrated that choosing a suitable direction of application of the IPUA, it
is possible to create several different logic gates with a single array of
coupled nanodisks" 10.1016/j.jmmm.2017.05.027 2017-05-02  "['Vigo-Cotrina', 'Guimarães']"
1705.01312 "Relation between Kitaev magnetism and structure in $\alpha$-RuCl$_3$" cond-mat.str-el "Raman scattering has been employed to investigate lattice and magnetic
excitations of the honeycomb Kitaev material $\alpha$-RuCl$_3$ and its
Heisenberg counterpart CrCl$_3$. Our phonon Raman spectra give evidence for a
first-order structural transition from a monoclinic to a rhombohedral structure
for both compounds. Significantly, only $\alpha$-RuCl$_3$ features a large
thermal hysteresis, consistent with the formation of a wide phase of
coexistence. In the related temperature interval of $70-170$ K, we observe a
hysteretic behavior of magnetic excitations as well. The stronger magnetic
response in the rhombohedral compared to the monoclinic phase evidences a
coupling between the crystallographic structure and low-energy magnetic
response. Our results demonstrate that the Kitaev magnetism concomitant with
fractionalized excitations is susceptible to small variations of bonding
geometry." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174429 2017-05-03  "['Glamazda', 'Lemmens', 'Do', 'Kwon', 'Choi']"
1705.01429 "Electron-Hole Symmetry Breaking in Charge Transport in Nitrogen-Doped
  Graphene" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Graphitic nitrogen-doped graphene is an excellent platform to study
scattering processes of massless Dirac fermions by charged impurities, in which
high mobility can be preserved due to the absence of lattice defects through
direct substitution of carbon atoms in the graphene lattice by nitrogen atoms.
In this work, we report on electrical and magnetotransport measurements of
high-quality graphitic nitrogen-doped graphene. We show that the substitutional
nitrogen dopants in graphene introduce atomically sharp scatters for electrons
but long-range Coulomb scatters for holes and, thus, graphitic nitrogen-doped
graphene exhibits clear electron-hole asymmetry in transport properties.
Dominant scattering processes of charge carriers in graphitic nitrogen-doped
graphene are analyzed. It is shown that the electron-hole asymmetry originates
from a distinct difference in intervalley scattering of electrons and holes. We
have also carried out the magnetotransport measurements of graphitic
nitrogen-doped graphene at different temperatures and the temperature
dependences of intervalley scattering, intravalley scattering and phase
coherent scattering rates are extracted and discussed. Our results provide an
evidence for the electron-hole asymmetry in the intervalley scattering induced
by substitutional nitrogen dopants in graphene and shine a light on versatile
and potential applications of graphitic nitrogen-doped graphene in electronic
and valleytronic devices." 10.1021/acsnano.7b00313 2017-05-03  "['Li', 'Lin', 'Rui', 'Li', 'Zhang', 'Kang', 'Zhang', 'Peng', 'Liu', 'Xu']"
1705.01491 "CoFFEE: Corrections For Formation Energy and Eigenvalues for charged
  defect simulations" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Charged point defects in materials are widely studied using Density
Functional Theory (DFT) packages with periodic boundary conditions. The
formation energy and defect level computed from these simulations need to be
corrected to remove the contributions from the spurious long-range interaction
between the defect and its periodic images. To this effect, the CoFFEE code
implements the Freysoldt-Neugebauer-Van de Walle (FNV) correction scheme. The
corrections can be applied to charged defects in a complete range of material
shapes and size: bulk, slab (or two-dimensional), wires and nanoribbons. The
code is written in Python and features MPI parallelization and optimizations
using the Cython package for slow steps."  2017-05-03 2017-05-27 "['Naik', 'Jain']"
1705.01519 "Superconducting fluctuations in a thin NbN film probed by the Hall
  effect" cond-mat.supr-con "We present a comprehensive study of how superconducting fluctuations in the
normal state contribute to the conductivity tensor in a thin (119 $\AA$) film
of NbN. It is shown how these fluctuations drive a sign change in the Hall
coefficient $R_\mathrm{H}$ for low magnetic fields near the superconducting
transition. The scaling behaviours as a function of distance to the transition
$\epsilon=\ln(T/T_\mathrm{c})$ of the longitudinal ($\sigma_\mathrm{xx}$) and
transverse ($\sigma_\mathrm{xy}$) conductivity is found to be consistent with
Gaussian fluctuation theory. Moreover, excellent quantitative agreement between
theory and experiment is obtained without any adjustable parameters. Our
experimental results thus provide a case study of the conductivity tensor
originating from short-lived Cooper pairs." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224501 2017-05-03 2017-05-09 "['Destraz', 'Ilin', 'Siegel', 'Schilling', 'Chang']"
1705.01771 "Charging of highly resistive granular metal films" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.str-el" "We have used the Scanning Kelvin probe microscopy technique to monitor the
charging process of highly resistive granular thin films. The sample is
connected to two leads and is separated by an insulator layer from a gate
electrode. When a gate voltage is applied, charges enter from the leads and
rearrange across the sample. We find very slow processes with characteristic
charging times exponentially distributed over a wide range of values, resulting
in a logarithmic relaxation to equilibrium. After the gate voltage has been
switched off, the system again relaxes logarithmically slowly to the new
equilibrium. The results cannot be explained with diffusion models, but most of
them can be understood with a hopping percolation model, in which the
localization length is shorter than the typical site separation. The technique
is very promising for the study of slow phenomena in highly resistive systems
and will be able to estimate the conductance of these systems when direct
macroscopic measurement techniques are not sensitive enough." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205427 2017-05-04  "['Orihuela', 'Ortuno', 'Somoza', 'Colchero', 'Palacios-Lidón', 'Grenet', 'Delahaye']"
1705.01996 "Exciton-phonon interaction in the strong coupling regime in hexagonal
  boron nitride" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The temperature-dependent optical response of excitons in semiconductors is
controlled by the exciton-phonon interaction. When the exciton-lattice coupling
is weak, the excitonic line has a Lorentzian profile resulting from motional
narrowing, with a width increasing linearly with the lattice temperature $T$.
In contrast, when the exciton-lattice coupling is strong, the lineshape is
Gaussian with a width increasing sublinearly with the lattice temperature,
proportional to $\sqrt{T}$. While the former case is commonly reported in the
literature, here the latter is reported for the first time, for hexagonal boron
nitride. Thus the theoretical predictions of Toyozawa [Progr. Theor. Phys. 20,
53 (1958)] are supported by demonstrating that the exciton-phonon interaction
is in the strong coupling regime in this Van der Waals crystal." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.201202 2017-05-04  "['Vuong', 'Cassabois', 'Valvin', 'Liu', 'Edgar', 'Gil']"
1705.02143 "Unusual ferroelectric and magnetic phases in multiferroic 2H-BaMnO$_3$
  ceramics" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The structural phase transition in hexagonal BaMnO$_3$ occurring at $T_c$=130
K was studied in ceramic samples using electron and X-ray diffraction, second
harmonic generation as well as by dielectric and lattice dynamic
spectroscopies. The low-temperature phase (space group $P6_{3}cm$) is
ferroelectric with a triplicated unit cell. The phase transition is driven by
an optical soft mode from the Brillouin-zone boundary [$q =
(\frac{1}{3},\frac{1}{3},0)$]; this mode activates in infrared and Raman
spectra below $T_c$ and it hardens according to the Cochran law. Upon cooling
below $T_c$, the permittivity exhibits an unusual linear increase with
temperature; below 60 K, in turn, a frequency-dependent decrease is observed,
which can be explained by slowing-down of ferroelectric domain wall motions.
Based on our data we could not distinguish whether the high-temperature phase
is paraelectric or polar (space groups $P6_{3}/mmc$ or $P6_{3}mc$,
respectively). Both variants of the phase transition to the ferroelectric phase
are discussed based on the Landau theory. Electron paramagnetic resonance and
magnetic susceptibility measurements reveal an onset of one-dimensional
antiferromagnetic ordering below $\approx220\,\rm K$ which develops fully near
140 K and, below $T_{n} \approx 59\,\rm K$, it transforms into a
three-dimensional antiferromagnetic order." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174103 2017-05-05  "['Kamba', 'Nuzhnyy', 'Savinov', 'Toledano', 'Laguta', 'Brazda', 'Kadlec', 'Borodavka', 'Kadlec', 'Bednyakov', 'Bovtun', 'Kempa', 'Kriegner', 'Drahokoupil', 'Kroupa', 'Prokleska', 'Chapagain', 'Dabrowski', 'Goian']"
1705.02273 "Cyclization of Short DNA Fragments" cond-mat.soft "From the per unit length free energy for DNA under tension, we have
calculated an effective contour length dependent persistence length for short
DNA. This effective persistence length results from the enhanced fluctuations
in short DNA. It decreases for shorter DNA, making shorter DNA more flexible.
The results of the J-factor calculated using this effective persistence length
are in good agreement with experimental data." 10.1016/j.physa.2017.04.141 2017-05-05  "['Lam', 'Zhen']"
1705.02763 "Insight into the temperature dependent properties of the ferromagnetic
  Kondo lattice YbNiSn" cond-mat.str-el "Analyzing temperature dependent photoemission (PE) data of the ferromagnetic
Kondo-lattice (KL) system YbNiSn in the light of the Periodic Anderson model
(PAM) we show that the KL behavior is not limited to temperatures below a
temperature T_K, defined empirically from resistivity and specificic heat
measurements. As characteristic for weakly hybridized Ce and Yb systems, the PE
spectra reveal a 4f-derived Fermi level peak, which reflects contributions from
the Kondo resonance and its crystal electric field (CEF) satellites. In YbNiSn
this peak has an unusual temperature dependence: With decreasing temperature a
steady linear increase of intensity is observed which extends over a large
interval ranging from 100 K down to 1 K without showing any peculiarities in
the region of T_K ~ TC= 5.6 K. In the light of the single-impurity Anderson
model (SIAM) this intensity variation reflects a linear increase of 4f
occupancy with decreasing temperature, indicating an onset of Kondo screening
at temperatures above 100 K. Within the PAM this phenomenon could be described
by a non-Fermi liquid like T- linear damping of the self-energy which accounts
phenomenologically for the feedback from the closely spaced CEF-states." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184433 2017-05-08  "['Generalov', 'Sokolov', 'Chikina', 'Kucherenko', 'Antonov', 'Bekenov', 'Patil', 'Huxley', 'Allen', 'Matho', 'Kummer', 'Vyalikh', 'Laubschat']"
1705.02780 "The stochastic interpolation method: A simple scheme to prove replica
  formulas in Bayesian inference" "cs.IT cond-mat.dis-nn math.IT" "In recent years important progress has been achieved towards proving the
validity of the replica predictions for the (asymptotic) mutual information (or
""free energy"") in Bayesian inference problems. The proof techniques that have
emerged appear to be quite general, despite they have been worked out on a
case-by-case basis. Unfortunately, a common point between all these schemes is
their relatively high level of technicality. We present a new proof scheme that
is quite straightforward with respect to the previous ones. We call it the
stochastic interpolation method because it can be seen as an extension of the
interpolation method developped by Guerra and Toninelli in the context of spin
glasses, with a trial ""parameter"" which becomes a stochastic process. In order
to illustrate our method we show how to prove the replica formula for three
non-trivial inference problems. The first one is symmetric rank-one matrix
estimation (or factorisation), which is the simplest problem considered here
and the one for which the method is presented in full details. Then we
generalize to symmetric tensor estimation and random linear estimation. In
addition, we show how to prove a tight lower bound for the mutual information
of non-symmetric tensor estimation. We believe that the present method has a
much wider range of applicability and also sheds new insights on the reasons
for the validity of replica formulas in Bayesian inference."  2017-05-08 2017-05-30 "['Barbier', 'Macris']"
1705.02892 "State-to-state chemistry at ultra-low temperature" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.atom-ph" "Fully understanding a chemical reaction on the quantum level is a
long-standing goal in physics and chemistry. Experimental investigation of such
state-to-state chemistry requires both the preparation of the reactants and the
detection of the products in a quantum state resolved way, which has been a
long term challenge. Using the high level control in the ultracold domain, we
prepare a few-body quantum state of reactants and demonstrate state-to-state
chemistry with unprecedented resolution. We present measurements and
accompanying theoretical analysis for the recombination of three spin-polarized
ultracold Rb atoms forming a weakly bound Rb$_2$ dimer. Detailed insights of
the reaction process are obtained that suggest propensity rules for the
distribution of reaction products. The scheme can readily be adapted to other
species and opens a door to detailed investigations of inelastic or reactive
processes in domains never before accessible."  2017-05-08 2017-05-31 "['Wolf', 'Deiß', 'Krükow', 'Tiemann', 'Ruzic', 'Wang', ""D'Incao"", 'Julienne', 'Denschlag']"
1705.03204 "The dependence of hydrophobic interactions on the solute size" "cond-mat.soft physics.chem-ph" "Based on our recent work on physical origin of hydrophobic effects, as two
hydrophobic solutes are dissolved into water, the hydration free energy is
determined, which is applied to investigate the dependence of hydrophobic
interactions on the solute size. At ambient conditions, the Rc (critical
radius) is calculated to be 3.2 {\AA}. When two solute are embedded into water,
in reference to the Rc, the dissolved behaviors are divided into initial and
hydrophobic solvation processes, respectively. These can be demonstrated by the
molecular dynamics simulations on C60-C60 fullerenes in water, and CH4-CH4
molecules in water. In the association of C60 fullerenes in water, with
decreasing the separation between C60 fullerenes, it can be divided into H1w
and H2s processes, respectively. In addition, it can be found that maximizing
hydrogen bonding provides the driving force in the association of hydrophobic
solutes in water."  2017-05-09 2017-06-04 ['Sun']
1705.03223 "Universal experimental test for the role of free charge carriers in
  thermal Casimir effect within a micrometer separation range" "cond-mat.other quant-ph" "We propose a universal experiment to measure the differential Casimir force
between a Au-coated sphere and two halves of a structured plate covered with a
P-doped Si overlayer. The concentration of free charge carriers in the
overlayer is chosen slightly below the critical one, f or which the phase
transition from dielectric to metal occurs. One ha f of the structured plate is
insulating, while its second half is made of gold. For the former we consider
two different structures, one consisting of bulk high-resistivity Si and the
other of a layer of silica followed by bulk high-resistivity Si. The
differential Casimir force is computed within the Lifshitz theory using four
approaches that have been proposed in the literature to account for the role of
free charge carriers in metallic and dielectric materials interacting with
quantum fluctuations. According to these approaches, Au at low frequencies is
described by either the Drude or the plasma model, whereas the free charge
carriers in dielectric materials at room temperature are either taken into
account or disregarded. It is shown that the values of differential Casimir
forces, computed in the micrometer separation range using these four
approaches, are widely distinct from each other and can be easily discriminated
experimentally. It is shown that for all approaches the thermal component of
the differential Casimir force is sufficiently large for direct observation.
The possible errors and uncertainties in the proposed experiment are estimated
and its importance for the theory of quantum fluctuations is discussed." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052508 2017-05-09 2017-05-10 "['Bimonte', 'Klimchitskaya', 'Mostepanenko']"
1705.03436 "Atomically flat single terminated oxide substrate surfaces" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "To achieve high quality epitaxial thin films and heterostructures of
transition metal oxides with atomically controlled interfaces, one critical
requirement is the use of atomically flat single terminated oxide substrates
since the atomic arrangements and the reaction chemistry of the topmost surface
layer of substrates determine the growth and consequent properties of the
overlying films. Achieving the atomically flat and chemically single terminated
surface state of commercially available substrates, however, requires judicious
efforts because the surface of as-received substrates is of chemically mixed
nature and also often polar. In this review, we summarize the surface treatment
procedures to accomplish atomically flat surfaces with single terminating layer
for various metal oxide substrates. We particularly focus on the substrates
with lattice constant ranging from 4.00 to 3.70 angstrom, as the lattice
constant of most perovskite materials falls into this range. For materials
outside the range, one can utilize the substrates to induce compressive or
tensile strain on the films and explore new states not available in bulk. The
substrates covered in this review, which have been chosen with commercial
availability and, most importantly, experimental practicality as a criterion,
are KTaO3, REScO3 (RE = Rare-earth elements), SrTiO3,
La0.18Sr0.82Al0.59Ta0.41O3 (LSAT), NdGaO3, LaAlO3, SrLaAlO4, and YAlO3.
Analyzing all the established procedures, we conclude that atomically flat
surfaces with selective A- or B-site single termination would be obtained for
most commercially available oxide substrates. We further note that this topmost
surface layer selectivity would provide an additional degree of freedom in
searching for unforeseen emergent phenomena and functional applications in
epitaxial oxide thin films and heterostructures with atomically controlled
interfaces." 10.1016/j.progsurf.2017.05.001 2017-05-09 2017-05-29 "['Biswas', 'Yang', 'Ramesh', 'Jeong']"
1705.03537 "Superconducting correlations induced by charge ordering in cuprate
  superconductors and Fermi arc formation" cond-mat.supr-con "We have developed a generalized electronic phase separation model of
high-temperature cuprate superconductors that links the two distinct energy
scales of the superconducting (SC) and pseudogap (PG) phases via a
charge-density-wave (CDW) state. We show that simulated electronic-density
modulations resembling the charge order (CO) modulations detected in cuprates
intertwine the SC and charge orders by localizing charge and providing the
energy scale for a spatially periodic SC attractive potential. Bulk
superconductivity is achieved with the inclusion of Josephson coupling between
nanoscale domains of intertwined fluctuating CDW and SC orders, and local SC
phase fluctuations give rise to the Fermi arcs along the nodal directions of
the SC gap. We demonstrate the validity of the model by reproducing the
hole-doping dependence of the PG onset temperature $T^*$, and the SC transition
temperature $T_c$ of ${\rm YBa_2Cu_3O_y}$ and ${\rm
Bi_{2-y}Pb_ySr_{2-z}La_zCuO_{6+\delta}}$. The results show that the periodicity
of the CDW order is controlled by the PG energy scale, and the hole-doping
dependence of the SC energy gap is controlled by the charge ordering free
energy." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184520 2017-05-09  "['de Mello', 'Sonier']"
1705.03586 "Performance Optimization in Two-dimensional Brownian Rotary Ratchet
  Models" cond-mat.stat-mech "With a model for two-dimensional (2D) Brownian rotary ratchets being capable
of producing a net torque under athermal random forces, its optimization for
mean angular momentum ($L$), mean angular velocity ($\omega$), and efficiency
($\eta$) is considered. In the model, supposing that such a small ratchet
system is placed in a thermal bath, the motion of the rotor in the stator is
described by the Langevin dynamics of a particle in a 2D ratchet potential,
which consists of a static and a time-dependent interaction between rotor and
stator; for the latter, we examine a force [randomly directed d.c. field
(RDDF)] for which only the direction is instantaneously updated in a sequence
of events in a Poisson process. Because of the chirality of the static part of
the potential, it is found that the RDDF causes net rotation while coupling
with the thermal fluctuations. Then, to maximize the efficiency of the power
consumption of the net rotation, we consider optimizing the static part of the
ratchet potential. A crucial point is that the newly designed form of ratchet
potential enables us to capture the essential feature of 2D ratchet potentials
with two closed curves and allows us to systematically construct an
optimization strategy. In this paper, we show a method for maximizing $L$,
$\omega$, and $\eta$, its outcome in 2D two-tooth ratchet systems, and a
direction of optimization for a three-tooth ratchet system." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.062103 2017-05-09 2017-05-23 "['Tutu', 'Ouchi', 'Horita']"
1705.03635 "Optical properties of AlGaN nanowires synthesized via ion beam
  techniques" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "AlGaN plays a vital role in hetero-structure high electron mobility
transistor by employing a two-dimensional electron gas and as electron blocking
layer in the multi quantum well light emitting diodes. Nevertheless, the
incorporation of Al in GaN for the formation of AlGaN alloy is limited by the
diffusion barrier formed by instant nitridation of Al adatoms by reactive
atomic N. Incorporation of Al above the miscibility limit, however can be
achieved by ion beam technique. The well known ion beam mixing (IBM) technique
was carried out with the help of Ar+ irradiation for different fluences. A
novel approach was also adopted for the synthesis of AlGaN by the process of
post irradiation diffusion (PID) as a comparative study with the IBM technique.
The optical investigations of AlGaN nanowires, synthesized via two different
methods of ion beam processing are reported. The effect of irradiation fluence
and post irradiation annealing temperature on the random alloy formation were
studied by the vibrational and photoluminescence (PL) spectroscopic studies.
Vibrational studies show one-mode phonon behavior corresponding to longitudinal
optical (LO) mode of A1 symmetry (A1(LO)) for the wurtzite phase of AlGaN
nanowires in the random alloy model. Maximum Al atomic percentage ~6.3-6.7% was
calculated with the help of band bowing formalism from the Raman spectral
analysis for samples synthesized in IBM and PID processes. PL studies show the
extent of defects present in these samples." 10.1063/1.4984015 2017-05-10  "['Parida', 'Magudapathy', 'Sivadasan', 'Pandian', 'Dhara']"
1705.04071 "Structural, Chemical and Optical Properties of Cerium Dioxide Film
  Prepared by Atomic Layer Deposition on TiN and Si Substrates" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Thin films of cerium dioxide (CeO2) were deposited by atomic layer deposition
(ALD) at 250 {\deg}C on both Si and TiN substrates. The ALD growth produces
CeO2 films with polycrystalline cubic phase on both substrates. However, the
films show a preferential orientation along <200> crystallographic direction
for CeO2/Si or <111> for CeO2/TiN, as revealed by X-ray diffraction.
Additionally, CeO2 films differ in interface roughness depending on the
substrate. Furthermore, the relative concentration of Ce3+ is 22.0% in CeO2/Si
and around 18% in CeO2/TiN, as obtained by X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy
(XPS). Such values indicate a ~10% off-stoichiometry and are indicative of the
presence of oxygen vacancies in the films. Nonetheless, CeO2 bandgap energy and
refractive index at 550 nm are 3.54+/-0.63 eV and 2.3 for CeO2/Si, and
3.63+/-0.18 eV and 2.4 for CeO2/TiN, respectively. Our results extend the
knowledge on the structural and chemical properties of ALD-deposited CeO2
either on Si or TiN substrates, underlying films differences and similarities,
thus contributing to boost the use of CeO2 through ALD deposition as foreseen
in a wide number of applications." 10.1016/j.tsf.2017.05.034 2017-05-11 2017-05-12 "['Vangelista', 'Piagge', 'Ek', 'Sarnet', 'Ghidini', 'Martella', 'Lamperti']"
1705.04625 "Measuring geometric frustration in twisted inextensible filament bundles" cond-mat.soft "We investigate with experiments and novel mapping the structure of a
hexagonally ordered filament bundle that is held near its ends and
progressively twisted around its central axis. The filaments are free to slide
relative to each other and are further held under tension-free boundary
conditions. Measuring the bundle packing with micro x-ray imaging, we find that
the filaments develop the helical rotation $\Omega$ imposed at the boundaries.
We then show that the observed structure is consistent with a mapping of the
filament positions to disks packed on a dual non-Euclidean surface with a
Gaussian curvature which increases with twist. We further demonstrate that the
mean inter-filament distance is minimal on the surface which can be
approximated by a hemisphere with an effective curvature $K_{eff} = 3\Omega^2$.
Examining the packing on the dual surface, we analyze the geometric frustration
of packing in twisted bundles and find the core to remain relatively
hexagonally ordered with inter-filament strains growing from the bundle center,
driving the formation of defects at the exterior of highly twisted bundles." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052503 2017-05-12  "['Panaitescu', 'Grason', 'Kudrolli']"
1705.04705 "Holographic Entanglement Entropy of Local Quenches in AdS$_4$/CFT$_3$: A
  Finite-Element Approach" "hep-th cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "Understanding quantum entanglement in interacting higher-dimensional
conformal field theories is a challenging task, as direct analytical
calculations are often impossible to perform. With holographic entanglement
entropy, calculations of entanglement entropy turn into a problem of finding
extremal surfaces in a curved spacetime, which we tackle with a numerical
finite-element approach. In this paper, we compute the entanglement entropy
between two half-spaces resulting from a local quench, triggered by a local
operator insertion in a CFT$_3$. We find that the growth of entanglement
entropy at early time agrees with the prediction from the first law, as long as
the conformal dimension $\Delta$ of the local operator is small. Within the
limited time region that we can probe numerically, we observe deviations from
the first law and a transition to sub-linear growth at later time. In
particular, the time dependence at large $\Delta$ shows qualitative differences
to the simple logarithmic time dependence familiar from the CFT$_2$ case. We
hope that our work will motivate further studies, both numerical and
analytical, on entanglement entropy in higher dimensions."  2017-05-12 2017-05-25 "['Jahn', 'Takayanagi']"
1705.04778 "Collisions between sintered icy aggregates" "astro-ph.EP cond-mat.soft" "Collisions between sintered icy dust aggregates are numerically simulated. If
the temperature of an icy aggregate is sufficiently high, sintering promotes
molecular transport and a neck between adjacent grains grows. This growth
changes the mechanical responses of the neck. We included this effect to a
simulation code, and conducted collisional simulations. For porous aggregates,
the critical velocity for growth, below which the mass of an aggregate
increases, decreased from 50\,m\,s$^{-1}$ for the non-sintered case to
20\,m\,s$^{-1}$. For compacted aggregates, the main collisional outcome is
bouncing. These results come from the fact that the strength of the neck is
increased by sintering. The numerical results suggest that the collisional
growth of icy grain aggregates is strongly affected by sintering." 10.3847/1538-4357/aa6fad 2017-05-12  "['Sirono', 'Ueno']"
1705.05175 "The bi-layered precipitate phase zeta in the Al-Ag alloy system" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The Al-Ag system is thought to be a well-understood model system used to
study diffusional phase transformations in alloys. Here we report the existence
of a new precipitate phase, zeta, in this classical system using scanning
transmission electron microscopy (STEM). The zeta phase has a modulated
structure composed of alternating bilayers enriched in Al or Ag. Our in situ
annealing experiments reveal that the zeta phase is an intermediate precipitate
phase between GP zones epsilon and gamma prime. First-principles calculations
show that z is a local energy minimum state formed during Ag clustering in Al.
The layered structure of zeta is analogous to the well-known Ag segregation at
the precipitate-matrix interfaces when Ag is micro- alloyed in various
aluminium alloys." 10.1016/j.actamat.2017.04.061 2017-05-15  "['Zhang', 'Bourgeois', 'Rosalie', 'Medhekar']"
1705.05593 "Unconventional Superconductivity" cond-mat.supr-con "Conventional superconductivity, as used in this review, refers to
electron-phonon coupled superconducting electron-pairs described by BCS theory.
Unconventional superconductivity refers to superconductors where the Cooper
pairs are not bound together by phonon exchange but instead by exchange of some
other kind, e. g. spin fluctuations in a superconductor with magnetic order
either coexistent or nearby in the phase diagram. Such unconventional
superconductivity has been known experimentally since heavy fermion CeCu2Si2,
with its strongly correlated 4f electrons, was discovered to superconduct below
0.6 K in 1979. Since the discovery of unconventional superconductivity in the
layered cuprates in 1986, the study of these materials saw Tc jump to 164 K by
1994. Further progress in high temperature superconductivity would be aided by
understanding the cause of such unconventional pairing. This review compares
the fundamental properties of 9 unconventional superconducting classes of
materials - from 4f-electron heavy fermions to organic superconductors to
classes where only three known members exist to the cuprates with over 200
examples, with the hope that common features will emerge to help theory explain
(and predict!) these phenomena. In addition, three new emerging classes of
superconductors (topological, interfacial [e. g. FeSe on SrTiO3], and H2S under
high pressure) are briefly covered, even though their conventionality is not
yet fully determined." 10.1080/00018732.2017.1331615 2017-05-16 2017-05-29 ['Stewart']
1705.05630 "Thermal interface fluctuations of liquids and viscoelastic materials" cond-mat.soft "Spectra of thermal fluctuations of a wide range of interfaces, from
liquid/air, viscoelastic material/air, liquid/liquid, to liquid/viscoelastic
material interfaces, were measured over 100 Hz to 10 MHz frequency range. The
obtained spectra were compared with the fluctuation theory of interfaces, and
found to be mostly in quite good agreement, when the theory was generalized to
apply to thermal fluctuations of liquid/viscoelastic material interfaces. The
spectra were measured using a system that combines light reflection,
statistical noise reduction through averaged correlations, and confocal
microscopy. It requires only a small area of the interface ($\sim1\,\mu$m$^2$)
, relatively short times for measurements ($\lesssim$few min), and can also be
applied to highly viscous materials."  2017-05-16 2017-05-30 "['Aoki', 'Mitsui']"
1705.05949 "Invariance of topological indices under Hilbert space truncation" cond-mat.str-el "We show that the topological index of a wavefunction, computed in the space
of twisted boundary phases, is preserved under Hilbert space truncation,
provided the truncated state remains normalizable. If truncation affects the
boundary condition of the resulting state, the invariant index may acquire a
different physical interpretation. If the index is symmetry protected, the
truncation should preserve the protecting symmetry. We discuss implications of
this invariance using paradigmatic integer and fractional Chern insulators,
$Z_2$ topological insulators, and Spin-$1$ AKLT and Heisenberg chains, as well
as its relation with the notion of bulk entanglement. As a possible
application, we propose a partial quantum tomography scheme from which the
topological index of a generic multi-component wavefunction can be extracted by
measuring only a small subset of wavefunction components, equivalent to the
measurement of a bulk entanglement topological index."  2017-05-16 2017-06-05 "['Huang', 'Zhu', 'Arovas', 'Zhu', 'Balatsky']"
1705.05982 "Nature of the Low Field $Q$ Degradation in Superconducting Niobium
  Cavities" "physics.acc-ph cond-mat.supr-con quant-ph" "In niobium superconducting radio frequency (SRF) accelerating cavities a
decrease of the quality factor at lower fields - a so called \emph{low field Q
slope or LFQS} - has been a long-standing unexplained effect. By extending the
high $Q$ measurement techniques to ultralow fields we discover two previously
unknown features of the effect: i) saturation at rf fields lower than
$E_\mathrm{acc} \sim 0.1$~MV/m; ii) strong degradation enhancement by growing
thicker niobium pentoxide. Our findings suggest that the LFQS may be caused by
the two level systems in the natural niobium oxide on the inner cavity surface,
thereby identifying a new source of residual resistance and providing guidance
for potential non-accelerator low field applications of SRF cavities."  2017-05-16 2017-05-30 "['Romanenko', 'Schuster']"
1705.06161 "Fast data sorting with modified principal component analysis to
  distinguish unique single molecular break junction trajectories" cond-mat.mes-hall "A simple and fast analysis method to sort large data sets into groups with
shared distinguishing characteristics is described, and applied to single
molecular break junction data. The method, based on principal component
analysis, successfully sorts data sets based on the projection of the data onto
the first or second principal component of the correlation matrix without the
need to assert any specific hypothesis about the expected features within the
data. The method is applied to mixtures of two molecules with identical anchor
groups, similar lengths, but either a $\pi$ (high conductance) or $\sigma$ (low
conductance) bridge. The mixed data is sorted into break junctions containing
one molecule or the other. The method also distinguishes between two junction
geometries in measurements of the $\pi$ bridged molecule alone."  2017-05-17 2017-05-31 "['Hamill', 'Zhao', 'Mészáros', 'Bryce', 'Arenz']"
1705.06269 "Active matter" cond-mat.stat-mech "The study of systems with sustained energy uptake and dissipation at the
scale of the constituent particles is an area of central interest in
nonequilibrium statistical physics. Identifying such systems as a distinct
category -- Active Matter -- unifies our understanding of autonomous collective
move- ment in the living world and in some surprising inanimate imitations. In
this article I present the Active Matter framework, briefly recall some early
work, review our recent results on single-particle and collective behaviour,
including experiments on active granular monolayers, and discuss new directions
for the future." 10.1088/1742-5468/aa6bc5 2017-05-17  ['Ramaswamy']
1705.06290 "Many body localization with long range interactions" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "Many body localization (MBL) has emerged as a powerful paradigm for
understanding non-equilibrium quantum dynamics. Folklore based on perturbative
arguments holds that MBL only arises in systems with short range interactions.
Here we advance non-perturbative arguments indicating that MBL can arise in
systems with long range (Coulomb) interactions. In particular, we show using
bosonization that MBL can arise in one dimensional systems with ~ r
interactions, a problem that exhibits charge confinement. We also argue that
(through the Anderson-Higgs mechanism) MBL can arise in two dimensional systems
with log r interactions, and speculate that our arguments may even extend to
three dimensional systems with 1/r interactions. Our arguments are `asymptotic'
(i.e. valid up to rare region corrections), yet they open the door to
investigation of MBL physics in a wide array of long range interacting systems
where such physics was previously believed not to arise."  2017-05-17 2017-05-30 "['Nandkishore', 'Sondhi']"
1705.06358 "Variance Reduction and Cluster Decomposition" "hep-lat cond-mat.stat-mech hep-ph nucl-th physics.comp-ph" "It is a common problem in lattice QCD calculation of the mass of the hadron
with an annihilation channel that the signal falls off in time while the noise
remains constant. In addition, the disconnected insertion calculation of the
three-point function and the calculation of the neutron electric dipole moment
with the $\theta$ term suffer from a noise problem due to the $\sqrt{V}$
fluctuation. We identify these problems to have the same origin and the
$\sqrt{V}$ problem can be overcome by utilizing the cluster decomposition
principle. We demonstrate this by considering the calculations of the glueball
mass, the strangeness content in the nucleon, and the CP violation angle in the
nucleon due to the $\theta$ term. It is found that for lattices with physical
sizes of 4.5 - 5.5 fm, the errors of these quantities can be reduced by a
factor of 3 to 4."  2017-05-17 2017-06-05 "['Liu', 'Liang', 'Yang']"
1705.06455 "Absence of the Pauli-Paramagnetic Limit in a Superconducting U$_6$Co" cond-mat.supr-con "We performed $^{59}$Co nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) measurements of
single-crystalline U$_6$Co. There is a small decrease in the Knight shift in
the superconducting (SC) state, but this change mainly arises from the SC
diamagnetic effect. The negligible change of the spin part of the Knight shift,
together with the absence of the Pauli-paramagnetic effect in the SC U$_6$Co,
is understood as a consequence of the small spin susceptibility. The nuclear
spin-lattice relaxation rate $1/T_1$ is also measured in the SC state under the
magnetic field, and exhibits a tiny Hebel-Slichter peak just below the SC
transition temperature and exponential behavior at lower temperatures. These
behaviors are in agreement with the full-gap s-wave pairing in U$_6$Co." 10.7566/JPSJ.86.073701 2017-05-18  "['Manago', 'Ishida', 'Aoki']"
1705.06588 "Does a growing static length scale control the glass transition?" cond-mat.dis-nn "Several theories of the glass transition propose that the structural
relaxation time {\tau}{\alpha} is controlled by a growing static length scale
{\xi} that is determined by the free energy landscape but not by the local
dynamical rules governing its exploration. We argue, based on recent
simulations using particle-radius-swap dynamics, that only a modest factor in
the increase in {\tau}{\alpha} on approach to the glass transition may stem
from the growth of a static length, with a vastly larger contribution
attributable instead to a slowdown of local dynamics. This reinforces arguments
that we base on the observed strong coupling of particle diffusion and density
fluctuations in real glasses"  2017-05-18 2017-05-30 "['Wyart', 'Cates']"
1705.06962 "Charge transfer driven emergent phenomena in oxide heterostructures" cond-mat.str-el "Complex oxides exhibit many intriguing phenomena, including metal-insulator
transition, ferroelectricity/multiferroicity, colossal magnetoresistance and
high transition temperature superconductivity. Advances in epitaxial thin film
growth techniques enable us to combine different complex oxides with atomic
precision and form an oxide heterostructure. Recent theoretical and
experimental work has shown that charge transfer across oxide interfaces
generally occurs and leads to a great diversity of emergent interfacial
properties which are not exhibited by bulk constituents. In this report, we
review mechanisms and physical consequence of charge transfer across interfaces
in oxide heterostructures. Both theoretical proposals and experimental
measurements of various oxide heterostructures are discussed and compared. We
also review the theoretical methods that are used to calculate charge transfer
across oxide interfaces and discuss the success and challenges in theory.
Finally, we present a summary and perspectives for future research." 10.1088/1361-648X/aa6efe 2017-05-19  "['Chen', 'Millis']"
1705.07063 "Double diffusivity model under stochastic forcing" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.stat-mech" "The ""double diffusivity"" model was proposed in the late 1970s, and reworked
in the early 1980s, as a continuum counterpart to existing discrete models of
diffusion corresponding to high diffusivity paths, such as grain boundaries and
dislocation lines. Technically, the model pans out as a system of coupled {\it
Fick type} diffusion equations to represent ""regular"" and ""high"" diffusivity
paths with ""source terms"" accounting for the mass exchange between the two
paths. The model remit was extended by analogy to describe flow in porous media
with double porosity, as well as to model heat conduction in media with two
non-equilibrium local temperature baths e.g. ion and electron baths. Uncoupling
of the two partial differential equations leads to a higher-ordered diffusion
equation, solutions of which could be obtained in terms of classical diffusion
equation solutions. Similar equations could also be derived within an ""internal
length"" gradient (ILG) mechanics formulation applied to diffusion problems,
{\it i.e.}, by introducing nonlocal effects, together with inertia and
viscosity, in a mechanics based formulation of diffusion theory. This issue
becomes particularly important in the case of diffusion in nanopolycrystals
whose deterministic ILG based theoretical calculations predict a relaxation
time that is only about one-tenth of the actual experimentally verified
timescale. This article provides the ""missing link"" in this estimation by
adding a vital element in the ILG structure, that of stochasticity, that takes
into account all boundary layer fluctuations. Our stochastic-ILG diffusion
calculation confirms rapprochement between theory and experiment, thereby
benchmarking a new generation of gradient-based continuum models that conform
closer to real life fluctuating environments." 10.1103/PhysRevE.95.052134 2017-05-19  "['Chattopadhyay', 'Aifantis']"
1705.07293 "Quantum phases of frustrated 2-leg spin-1/2 ladders with skewed rungs" cond-mat.str-el "The quantum phases of 2-leg spin-1/2 ladders with skewed rungs are obtained
using exact diagonalization of systems with up to 26 spins and by density
matrix renormalization group calculations to 500 spins. The ladders have
isotropic antiferromagnetic (AF) exchange $J_2 > 0$ between first neighbors in
the legs, variable isotropic AF exchange $J_1$ between some first neighbors in
different legs, and an unpaired spin per odd-membered ring when $J_1 \gg J_2$.
Ladders with skewed rungs and variable $J_1$ have frustrated AF interactions
leading to multiple quantum phases: AF at small $J_1$, either F or AF at large
$J_1$, as well as bond-order-wave phases or reentrant AF (singlet) phases at
intermediate $J_1$." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224408 2017-05-20  "['Giri', 'Dey', 'Kumar', 'Ramasesha', 'Soos']"
1705.07317 "Realization of an atomically thin mirror using monolayer MoSe2" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.app-ph quant-ph" "Advent of new materials such as van der Waals heterostructures, propels new
research directions in condensed matter physics and enables development of
novel devices with unique functionalities. Here, we show experimentally that a
monolayer of MoSe2 embedded in a charge controlled heterostructure can be used
to realize an electrically tunable atomically-thin mirror, that effects 90%
extinction of an incident field that is resonant with its exciton transition.
The corresponding maximum reflection coefficient of 45% is only limited by the
ratio of the radiative decay rate to the linewidth of exciton transition and is
independent of incident light intensity up to 400 Watts/cm2. We demonstrate
that the reflectivity of the mirror can be drastically modified by applying a
gate voltage that modifies the monolayer charge density. Our findings could
find applications ranging from fast programmable spatial light modulators to
suspended ultra-light mirrors for optomechanical devices."  2017-05-20 2017-06-01 "['Back', 'Ijaz', 'Zeytinoglu', 'Kroner', 'Imamoglu']"
1705.07412 "Frenetic bounds on the entropy production" cond-mat.stat-mech "We show that under local detailed balance the expected entropy production
rate is always bounded in terms of the dynamical activity. The activity refers
to the time-symmetric contribution in the action functional for path-space
probabilities and relates to escape rates and unoriented traffic. Under global
detailed balance we get a lower bound on the decrease of free energy which is
known from gradient flow analysis. For stationary driven systems we recover
some of the recently studied ""uncertainty"" relations for the entropy
production, appearing in studies about the effectiveness of mesoscopic machines
and that refine the positivity of the entropy production rate by providing
lower bounds in terms of a positive and even function of the current(s). We
extend these lower bounds for the entropy production rate to include
underdamped diffusions."  2017-05-21 2017-05-30 ['Maes']
1705.07414 "Unfolding Hidden Barriers by Active Enhanced Sampling" "physics.chem-ph cond-mat.stat-mech cs.LG" "Collective variable (CV) or order parameter based enhanced sampling
algorithms have achieved great success due to their ability to efficiently
explore the rough potential energy landscapes of complex systems. However, the
degeneracy of microscopic configurations, originating from the orthogonal space
perpendicular to the CVs, is likely to shadow ""hidden barriers"" and greatly
reduce the efficiency of CV-based sampling. Here we demonstrate that systematic
machine learning CV, through enhanced sampling, can iteratively lift such
degeneracies on the fly. We introduce an active learning scheme that consists
of a parametric CV learner based on deep neural network and a CV-based enhanced
sampler. Our active enhanced sampling (AES) algorithm is capable of identifying
the least informative regions based on a historical sample, forming a positive
feedback loop between the CV leaner and sampler. This approach is able to
globally preserve kinetic characteristics by incrementally enhancing both
sample completeness and CV quality."  2017-05-21  "['Zhang', 'Chen']"
1705.07547 "Hydrogen-modified inverse Spin Hall Effect in palladium-cobalt bi-layer
  films" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The influence of hydrogen gas absorption by the Pd layer of bi-layered films
containing Pd and Co layers on the inverse Spin Hall Effect (iSHE) in the
material is measured. iSHE is driven by ferromagnetic resonance in the cobalt
layer. In these conditions, the iSHE is seen as a d.c. voltage across the Pd
layer. In the presence of hydrogen gas the iSHE peak shifts downwards in the
applied field together with the ferromagnetic resonance absorption peak for the
material. In parallel, an increase in the iSHE peak height and in its width is
observed. Our analysis suggests that these observations can potentially be
explained as a reduction in the spin Hall angle for the Palladium layer in the
presence of hydrogen gas."  2017-05-21 2017-06-06 "['Watt', 'Cong', 'Lueng', 'Sushruth', 'Metaxas', 'Kostylev']"
1705.07586 "Achiral tilted domain walls in perpendicularly magnetized nanowires" cond-mat.mes-hall "Perpendicularly magnetized nanowires exhibit distinct domain wall types
depending on the geometry. Wide wires contain Bloch walls, narrow wires N\'eel
walls. Here, the transition region is investigated by direct imaging of the
wall structure using high-resolution spin-polarized scanning electron
microscopy. An achiral intermediate wall type is discovered that is unpredicted
by established theoretical models. With the help of micromagnetic simulations,
the formation of this novel wall type is explained." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.180406 2017-05-22  "['Boehm', 'Bisig', 'Bischof', 'Stefanou', 'Hickey', 'Allenspach']"
1705.07899 "Numerical calculations on the relative entanglement entropy in critical
  spin chains" "cond-mat.stat-mech hep-th" "We study the relative entanglement entropy (EE) among various primary excited
states in two critical spin chains: the S=1/2 XXZ chain and the transverse
field Ising chain at criticality. For the S=1/2 XXZ chain, which corresponds to
c=1 free boson conformal field theory (CFT), we numerically calculate the
relative EE by exact diagonalization and find a perfect agreement with the
predictions by the CFT. For the transverse field Ising chain at criticality,
which corresponds to the c=1/2 Ising CFT, we analytically relate its relative
EE to that of the S=1/2 XXZ chain and confirm the relation numerically. We also
calculate the ""sandwiched"" R\'enyi relative EE and again the numerical results
agree well with the analytical predictions. Our results are the first direct
confirmation of the CFT predictions on the relative EE of the primary excited
states in critical spin chains."  2017-05-22 2017-05-30 "['Nakagawa', 'Ugajin']"
1705.07916 "Time-of-flight elastic and inelastic neutron scattering studies on the
  localized $4d$ electron layered perovskite La$_5$Mo$_4$O$_{16}$" cond-mat.str-el "The magnetic structure and spin-wave excitations in the quasi-square-lattice
layered perovskite compound La$_5$Mo$_4$O$_{16}$ were studied by a combination
of neutron diffraction and inelastic neutron scattering techniques using
polycrystalline sample. Neutron powder diffraction refinement revealed that the
magnetic structure is ferrimagnetic in the $ab$ plane with antiferromagnetic
stacking along the $c$ axis where the magnetic propagation vector is
$\mathbf{k}=\left(0,0,\frac{1}{2}\right)$. The ordered magnetic moments are
estimated to be $0.54(2)\mu_\text{B}$ for Mo$^{5+}$ ($4d^1$) ions and
$1.07(3)\mu_\text{B}$ for Mo$^{4+}$ ($4d^2$) ions at 4 K, which are about half
of the expected values. The inelastic neutron scattering results display strong
easy-axis magnetic anisotropy along the $c$ axis due to the spin-orbit
interaction in Mo ions evidenced by the spin gap at the magnetic zone center.
The model Hamiltonian consisting of in-plane anisotropic exchange interactions,
the interlayer exchange interaction, and easy-axis single-ion anisotropy can
explain our inelastic neutron scattering data well. Strong Ising-like
anisotropy and weak interlayer coupling compared with the intralayer exchange
interaction can explain both the high-temperature magnetoresistance and
long-time magnetization decay recently observed in La$_5$Mo$_4$O$_{16}$." 10.7566/JPSJ.86.064803 2017-05-22  "['Iida', 'Kajimoto', 'Mizuno', 'Kamazawa', 'Inamura', 'Hoshikawa', 'Yoshida', 'Matsukawa', 'Ishigaki', 'Kawamura', 'Ibuka', 'Yokoo', 'Itoh', 'Katsufuji']"
1705.08013 "Non-Euclidean geometry in nature" cond-mat.soft "I describe the manifestation of the non-Euclidean geometry in the behavior of
collective observables of some complex physical systems. Specifically, I
consider the formation of equilibrium shapes of plants and statistics of sparse
random graphs. For these systems I discuss the following interlinked questions:
(i) the optimal embedding of plants leaves in the three-dimensional space, (ii)
the spectral statistics of sparse random matrix ensembles."  2017-05-22 2017-05-27 ['Nechaev']
1705.08224 "Valley Edelstein Effect in Monolayer Transition Metal Dichalcogenides" cond-mat.mes-hall "Monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (MTMDs) exhibit spin-orbit
coupling (SOC) called Ising SOC which polarizes electron spins to opposite
out-of-plane directions for electrons in opposite valleys. We predict the
emergence of the valley Edelstein Effect (VEE), which is an
electric-field-induced spin polarization effect, in the MTMDs. We found an
unconventional valley-dependent response in which the spin-polarization is
parallel to the applied electric field and the spin-polarization is opposite at
opposite valleys due to the Ising SOC. This is in sharp contrast to usual
Edelstein effect in which the induced spin-polarization is perpendicular to the
applied electric field. We attribute the VEE to the valley Hall effect and
Ising SOC. Experimental schemes to detect the VEE are also considered."  2017-05-23 2017-05-31 "['Taguchi', 'Kawaguchi', 'Tanaka', 'Law']"
1705.08491 "Stochastic Replica Voting Machine prediction of stable Perovskite and
  binary alloys" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "A machine learning approach that we term that the Stochastic Replica Voting
Machine (SRVM) algorithm is presented and applied to a binary and a 3-class
classification problems in materials science. Here, we employ SRVM to predict
candidate compounds capable of forming cubic Perovskite (ABX3) structure and
further classify binary (AB) solids. The results of our binary and ternary
classifications compared to those obtained by the SVM algorithm."  2017-05-23 2017-05-27 "['Sun', 'Mazaheri', 'Scher-Zagier', 'Magee', 'Ronhovde', 'Lookman', 'Nussinov']"
1705.08523 "Probing the fluctuations of the optical properties in time-resolved
  spectroscopy" cond-mat.str-el "We show that, in optical pump-probe experiments on bulk samples, the
statistical distribution of the intensity of ultrashort light pulses after the
interaction with a nonequilibrium complex material can be used to measure the
time-dependent noise of the current in the system. We illustrate the general
arguments for a photo-excited Peierls material. The transient noise
spectroscopy allows to measure to what extent electronic degrees of freedom
dynamically obey the fluctuation-dissipation theorem, and how well they
thermalize during the coherent lattice vibrations. The proposed statistical
measurement developed here provides a new general framework to retrieve
dynamical information on the excited distributions in nonequilibrium
experiments which could be extended to other degrees of freedom of magnetic or
vibrational origin."  2017-05-23 2017-06-06 "['Randi', 'Esposito', 'Giusti', 'Parmigiani', 'Misochko', 'Fausti', 'Eckstein']"
1705.08647 "Magnetopumping current in graphene Corbino pump" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study conductance and adiabatic pumped charge and spin currents in a
graphene quantum pump with Corbino geometry in the presence of an applied
perpendicular magnetic field. The pump is driven by the periodic and out of
phase modulations of the magnetic field and an electrostatic potential applied
to the ring area of the pump. We show that the Zeeman splitting, despite of its
smallness, can suppress the conductance oscillations at the zero doping and in
a threshold value for the flux piercing the ring area which depends on the
inner lead radius and thus on the flux penetrating in it. Moreover, it
generates a considerable spin conductance at infinitesimal nonzero doping and
at the magnetic flux, that charge conductance starts to suppress. We find that
the pumped charge and spin currents increase by the magnetic field with small
oscillations until they start to suppress due to the effect of the nonzero
doping and the Zeeman splitting. In graphene Corbino pumps with small inner
leads the Zeeman splitting shows its effect in a large value of the magnetic
field and thus we can get a considerable pumped charge and spin currents at the
enough small magnetic fields." 10.1016/j.physe.2016.05.011 2017-05-24  "['Abdollahipour', 'Moomivand']"
1705.08675 "Entanglement spectrum of the degenerative ground state of Heisenberg
  ladders in a time-dependent magnetic field" "cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "We investigate of the relationship between the entanglement and subsystem
Hamiltonians in the perturbative regime of strong coupling between subsystems.
One of the two conditions that guarantees the proportionality between these
Hamiltonians obtained by using the nondegenerate perturbation theory within the
first order is that the unperturbed ground state has a trivial entanglement
Hamiltonian. Furthermore, we study the entanglement Hamiltonian of the
Heisenberg ladders in a time-dependent magnetic field using the degenerate
perturbation theory, where couplings between legs are considered as a
perturbation. In this case, when the ground state is two-fold degenerate, and
the entanglement Hamiltonian is proportional to the Hamiltonian of a chain
within first-order perturbation theory, even then also the unperturbed ground
state has a nontrivial entanglement spectrum."  2017-05-24 2017-05-28 ['Predin']
1705.08697 "Interfacial Mechanical Behaviors in Carbon Nanotube Assemblies" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Interface widely exists in carbon nanotube (CNT) assembly materials, taking
place at different length scales. It determines severely the mechanical
properties of these assembly materials. Here I assess the mechanical properties
of individual CNTs and CNT bundles, the inter-layer or inter-shell mechanics in
multi-walled CNTs, the shear properties between adjacent CNTs, and the
assembly-dependent mechanical and multifunctional properties of macroscopic CNT
fibers and films." 10.5772/67764 2017-05-24  ['Zhang']
1705.08752 "Dynamic localization in an effective tight binding Hamiltonian model
  with a rapidly oscillating homogeneous electric field on a lattice" cond-mat.other "By the Magnus-Floquet approach we calculate the effective Hamiltonian for a
charged particle on the lattice subject to a homogeneous high frequency
oscillating electric field. The obtained result indicate the absence of dynamic
localization of the particle for any value of the lattice constant and electric
field applied, which completes the limit results obtained by Dunlap and Kenkre."  2017-05-24 2017-06-01 "['Martínez-Quintana', 'González-Díaz']"
1705.08840 "Grand-canonical Monte-Carlo simulation of solutions of salt mixtures:
  theory and implementation" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.stat-mech physics.chem-ph" "A Grand-canonical Monte-Carlo simulation method extended to simulate a
mixture of salts is presented. Due to charge neutrality requirement of
electrolyte solutions, ions must be added to or removed from the system in
groups. This leads to some complications compared to regular Grand Canonical
simulation. Here, a recipe for simulation of electrolyte solution of salt
mixture is presented. It is then implemented to simulate solution of 1:1, 2:1
and 2:2 salts or their mixtures at different concentrations using the primitive
ion model. The osmotic pressures of the electrolyte solutions are calculated
and shown to depend linearly on the salt concentrations within the
concentration range simulated. We also show that at the same concentration of
divalent anions, the presence of divalent cations make it easier to insert
monovalent cations into the system. This can explain some quantitative
differences observed in experiments of the MgCl$_2$ salt mixture and MgSO$_4$
salt mixture."  2017-05-24  ['Nguyen']
1705.08876 "Realization of the Axial Next-Nearest-Neighbor Ising model in
  U$_3$Al$_2$Ge$_3$" cond-mat.str-el "Here we report small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) measurements and
theoretical modeling of U$_3$Al$_2$Ge$_3$. Analysis of the SANS data reveals a
phase transition to sinusoidally modulated magnetic order, at $T_N=63$~K to be
second order, and a Lifshitz phase transition to ferromagnetic order at
$T_c=48$~K. Within the sinusoidally modulated magnetic phase ($T_c < T < T_N$),
we uncover a dramatic change in the ordering wave-vector as a function of
temperature. These observations all indicate that U$_3$Al$_2$Ge$_3$ is a close
realization of the three-dimensional Axial Next-Nearest-Neighbor Ising model, a
prototypical framework for describing commensurate to incommensurate phase
transitions in frustrated magnets."  2017-05-24 2017-05-30 "['Fobes', 'Lin', 'Ghimire', 'Bauer', 'Thompson', 'Bleuel', 'DeBeer-Schmitt', 'Janoschek']"
1705.08890 "Ferromagnetic transition in a one-dimensional spin-orbit-coupled metal
  and its mapping to a critical point in smectic liquid crystals" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.soft" "We study the quantum phase transition between a paramagnetic and
ferromagnetic metal in the presence of Rashba spin-orbit coupling in one
dimension. Using bosonization, we analyze the transition by means of
renormalization group, controlled by an $\varepsilon$-expansion around the
upper critical dimension of two. We show that the presence of Rashba spin-orbit
coupling allows for a new nonlinear term in the bosonized action, which
generically leads to a fluctuation driven first-order transition. We further
demonstrate that the Euclidean action of this system maps onto a classical
smectic-A -- C phase transition in a magnetic field in two dimensions. We show
that the smectic transition is second-order and is controlled by a new critical
point."  2017-05-24 2017-06-01 "['Kozii', 'Ruhman', 'Fu', 'Radzihovsky']"
1705.08914 "Mutual Interactions of Phonons, Rotons, and Gravity" "hep-th cond-mat.other cond-mat.quant-gas gr-qc hep-ph" "We introduce an effective point-particle action for generic particles living
in a zero-temperature superfluid. This action describes the motion of the
particles in the medium at equilibrium as well as their couplings to sound
waves and generic fluid flows. While we place the emphasis on elementary
excitations such as phonons and rotons, our formalism applies also to
macroscopic objects such as vortex rings and rigid bodies interacting with
long-wavelength fluid modes. Within our approach, we reproduce phonon decay and
phonon-phonon scattering as predicted using a purely field-theoretic
description of phonons. We also correct classic results by Landau and
Khalatnikov on roton-phonon scattering. Finally, we discuss how phonons and
rotons couple to gravity, and show that the former tend to float while the
latter tend to sink but with rather peculiar trajectories. Our formalism can be
easily extended to include (general) relativistic effects and couplings to
additional matter fields. As such, it can be relevant in contexts as diverse as
neutron star physics and light dark matter detection."  2017-05-24  "['Nicolis', 'Penco']"
1705.08973 "Fermion-induced quantum criticality in two-dimensional Dirac semimetals:
  Non-perturbative flow equations, fixed points and critical exponents" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech hep-th" "We establish a scenario where fluctuations of new degrees of freedom at a
quantum phase transition change the nature of a transition beyond the standard
Landau-Ginzburg paradigm. To this end we study the quantum phase transition of
gapless Dirac fermions coupled to a $\mathbb{Z}_3$ symmetric order parameter
within a Gross-Neveu-Yukawa model in 2+1 dimensions, appropriate for the
Kekul\'e transition in honeycomb lattice materials. For this model the standard
Landau-Ginzburg approach suggests a first order transition due to the
symmetry-allowed cubic terms in the action. At zero temperature, however,
quantum fluctuations of the massless Dirac fermions have to be included. We
show that they reduce the putative first-order character of the transition and
can even render it continuous, depending on the number of Dirac fermions $N_f$.
A non-perturbative functional renormalization group approach is employed to
investigate the phase transition for a wide range of fermion numbers. For the
first time we obtain the critical $N_f$, where the nature of the transition
changes. Furthermore, it is shown that for large $N_f$ the change from the
first to second order of the transition as a function of dimension occurs
exactly in the physical 2+1 dimensions. We compute the critical exponents and
predict sizable corrections to scaling for $N_f =2$."  2017-05-24  "['Classen', 'Herbut', 'Scherer']"
1705.09118 "Conformal symmetry of trapped Bose-Einstein condensates and massive
  Nambu-Goldstone modes" "cond-mat.quant-gas hep-th" "The Gross-Pitaevskii (GP) or nonlinear Schr\""odinger equation relevant to
ultracold atomic gaseous Bose-Einstein condensates possess a modified
Schr\""odinger symmetry in two spatial dimensions, in the presence of a harmonic
trapping potential, an (artificial) constant magnetic field (or rotation) and
an electric field of a quadratic electrostatic potential. We find that a
variance and a center of a trapped gas with or without a vorticity can be
regarded as massive Nambu-Goldstone (NG) modes associated with spontaneous
breaking of the modified Schr\""odinger symmetry. We show that the Noether
theorem for the modified Schr\""odinger symmetry gives universal equations of
motion which describe exact time-evolutions of the trapped gases such as a
harmonic oscillation, a cyclotron motion and a breathing oscillation with
frequencies determined by the symmetry independently of the details of the
system. We further construct an exact effective action for all the NG modes."  2017-05-25 2017-06-02 "['Ohashi', 'Fujimori', 'Nitta']"
1705.09192 "Dynamical Generation of Topological Masses in Dirac Fermions" cond-mat.str-el "We report discovery of a topological Mott insulator in strongly-correlated
Dirac semimetals. Such an interaction-driven topological state has been
theoretically proposed but not yet observed with unbiased large scale numerical
simulations. In our model, interactions between electrons are mediated by Ising
spins in a transverse field. The results indicate that the topological mass
term is dynamically generated and the resulting quantum phase transition
belongs to the (2+1)D $N=8$ chiral Ising universality class. These conclusions
stem from large scale sign free quantum Monte Carlo simulations."  2017-05-25 2017-06-03 "['He', 'Xu', 'Sun', 'Assaad', 'Meng', 'Lu']"
1705.09287 "Effects due to unconventional pairing in transport through a normal
  metalsuperconductor-normal metal hybrid junction" cond-mat.mes-hall "We explore transport properties of a normal metal-superconductor-normal metal
(NSN) junction, where the superconducting region supports mixed singlet and
chiral triplet pairings. We show that in the subgapped regime when the chiral
triplet pairing amplitude dominates over that of the singlet, a resonance
phenomena emerges out where all the quantum mechanical scattering probabilities
acquire a value of 0.25. At the resonance, crossed Andreev reflection mediating
through such junction, acquires a zero energy peak. This reflects as a zero
energy peak in the conductance as well in the topological phase when $\Delta_p
> \Delta_s$." 10.1063/1.4980637 2017-05-24  "['Paul', 'Dutta', 'Saha']"
1705.09288 "Elastic wave control beyond band-gaps: shaping the flow of waves in
  plates and half-spaces" "physics.class-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.app-ph physics.comp-ph physics.geo-ph" "It is well known in metamaterials that local resonance and hybridization
phenomena dramatically influence the shape of dispersion curves; the
metasurface created by a cluster of resonators, subwavelength rods, atop an
elastic surface being an exemplar with these features. On this metasurface,
band-gaps, slow or fast waves, negative refraction and dynamic anisotropy can
all be observed by exploring frequencies and wavenumbers from the Floquet-Bloch
problem and by using the Brillouin zone. These extreme characteristics, when
appropriately engineered, can be used to design and control the propagation of
elastic waves along the metasurface. For the exemplar we consider, two
parameters are easily tuned: rod height and cluster periodicity. The height is
directly related to the band-gap frequency, and hence to the slow and fast
waves, while the periodicity is related to the appearance of dynamic
anisotropy. Playing with these two parameters generates a gallery of
metasurface designs to control the propagation of both flexural waves in plates
and surface Rayleigh waves for half-spaces. Scalability with respect to the
frequency and wavelength of the governing physical laws allows the application
of these concepts in very different fields and over a wide range of
lengthscales."  2017-05-25  "['Colombi', 'Craster', 'Colquitt', 'Achaoui', 'Guenneau', 'Roux', 'Rupin']"
1705.09298 "Filling-enforced constraint on the quantized Hall conductivity on a
  periodic lattice" cond-mat.str-el "We discuss quantum Hall effects in a gapped insulator on a periodic
two-dimensional lattice. We derive a universal relation among the the quantized
Hall conductivity, and charge and flux densities per physical unit cell. This
follows from the magnetic translation symmetry and the large gauge invariance,
and holds for a very general class of interacting many-body systems. It can be
understood as a combination of Laughlin's gauge invariance argument and
Lieb-Schultz-Mattis-type theorem. A variety of complementary arguments, based
on a cut-and-glue procedure, the many-body electric polarization, and a
fractionalization algebra of magnetic translation symmetry, are given. Our
universal relation is applied to several examples to show nontrivial
constraints. In particular, a gapped ground state at a fractional charge
filling per physical unit cell must have either a nonvanishing Hall
conductivity or anyon excitations, excluding a trivial Mott insulator."  2017-05-25  "['Lu', 'Ran', 'Oshikawa']"
1705.09300 "Decipher the nonlocal entanglement entropy of fracton topological orders" "cond-mat.str-el hep-th quant-ph" "The ground states of topological orders condense extended objects and support
topological excitations. This nontrivial property leads to nonzero topological
entanglement entropy $S_{topo}$ for conventional topological orders. Fracton
topological order is an exotic class of topological order which is beyond the
description of TQFT. With some assumptions about the condensates and the
topological excitations, we derive a lower bound of the nonlocal entanglement
entropy $S_{nonlocal}$ (a generalization of $S_{topo}$). The lower bound
applies to Abelian stabilizer models including conventional topological orders
as well as type I and type II fracton models. For fracton models, the lower
bound shows that $S_{nonlocal}$ could obtain geometry-dependent values, and
$S_{nonlocal}$ is extensive for certain choices of subsystems. The stability of
the lower bound under local perturbations is discussed. A variant of our method
for non-Abelian models will be presented in an upcoming work."  2017-05-25  "['Shi', 'Lu']"
1705.09308 "Chiral anomaly and quasi-classical planar Hall effect in Weyl semimetals" cond-mat.mes-hall "In condensed matter physics, the term ""chiral anomaly"" implies the violation
of the separate number conservation laws for Weyl fermions of different
chiralities in the presence of parallel electric and magnetic fields. One
effect of chiral anomaly in the recently discovered Weyl and Dirac semimetals
is a negative longitudinal magneto-resistance, i.e., decrease in electrical
resistance when the electric and magnetic fields are parallel to each other.
This effect, well understood theoretically in quasi-classical as well as in
deep quantum limit, has recently been experimentally verified. A second effect
of chiral anomaly has been suggested to be a \textit{planar} Hall effect, i.e.,
appearance of an in-plane transverse voltage when the electric and magnetic
fields are not perfectly aligned to each other. We present a quasi-classical
theory of planar Hall effect in Weyl semimetals, where the electron or hole
Fermi surfaces enclose non-zero fluxes of Berry curvature in momentum space.
Together with longitudinal magneto-resistance in Weyl semimetals, this study
unifies the quasi-classical description of chiral anomaly induced
magneto-transport phenomena in Weyl and Dirac semimetals."  2017-05-25  "['Nandy', 'Sharma', 'Taraphder', 'Tewari']"
1705.09309 "Bose-Einstein condensation temperature of weakly interacting atoms" cond-mat.quant-gas "The critical temperature of Bose-Einstein condensation essentially depends on
internal properties of the system as well as on the geometry of a trapping
potential. The peculiarities of defining the phase transition temperature of
Bose-Einstein condensation for different systems are reviewed, including
homogenous Bose gas, trapped Bose atoms, and bosons in optical lattices. The
method of self-similar approximants, convenient for calculating critical
temperature, is briefly delineated." 10.1088/1612-202X/aa6eed 2017-05-25  "['Yukalov', 'Yukalova']"
1705.09313 "Symmetric Fermion Mass Generation as Deconfined Quantum Criticality" cond-mat.str-el "Massless 2+1D Dirac fermions arise in a variety of systems from graphene to
the surfaces of topological insulators, where generating a mass is typically
associated with breaking a symmetry. However, with strong interactions, a
symmetric gapped phase can arise for multiples of eight Dirac fermions. A
continuous quantum phase transition from the massless Dirac phase to this
massive phase, which we term Symmetric Mass Generation (SMG), is necessarily
beyond the Landau paradigm and is hard to describe even at the conceptual
level. Nevertheless, such transition has been consistently observed in several
numerical studies recently. Here, we propose a theory for the SMG transition
which is reminiscent of deconfined criticality and involves emergent
non-Abelian gauge fields coupled both to Dirac fermions and to critical Higgs
bosons. We motivate the theory using an explicit parton construction and
discuss predictions for numerics. Additionally, we show that the fermion
Green's function is expected to undergo a zero to pole transition across the
critical point."  2017-05-25  "['You', 'He', 'Xu', 'Vishwanath']"
1705.09341 "Thermal Contrast in Nanoscale Infrared Spectroscopy (AFM-IR): Low
  Frequency Limit" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "The contrast formation mechanism in Nanoscale Infrared Spectroscopy (Nano-IR
or AFM-IR) is analyzed for the boundary between two layers with different light
absorption, thermal and elastic parameters. Analytical results derived in the
decoupling approximation for low frequency limit show that the response
amplitude is linearly proportional to the intensity of the illuminating light
and thermal expansion coefficient. The spatial resolution between two
dissimilar materials is linearly proportional to the sum of inverse light
adsorption coefficients and to the effective thermal transfer length. The
difference of displacements height across the T-shape boundary (""thermo-elastic
step"") is proportional to the difference of the adsorption coefficients and
inversely proportional to the heat transfer coefficient. The step height
becomes thickness-independent for thick films and proportional to h^2 in a very
thin film"  2017-05-25  "['Morozovska', 'Eliseev', 'Borodinov', 'Ovchinnikova', 'Morozovsky', 'Kalinin']"
1705.09345 "Tuning the topological states in organometallic bilayers" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We have investigated the energetic stability and the electronic properties of
metal-organic topological insulators bilayers (BLs), $(MC_4S_4)_3$-BL, with
M=Ni and Pt, using first-principles calculations and tight-binding model. Our
findings show that $(MC_4S_4)_3$-BL is an appealing platform to perform
electronic band structure engineering, based on the topologically protected
chiral edge states. The energetic stability of the BLs is ruled by van der
Waals interactions; being the AA stacking the energetically most stable one.
The electronic band structure is characterized by a combination of bonding and
anti-bonding kagome band sets (KBSs), revealing that $(NiC_4S_4)_3$-BL presents
a Z$_2$-metallic phase, whereas $(PtC_4S_4)_3$-BL may present both
Z$_2$-metallic phase or quantum spin Hall phase. Those non-trivial topological
states were confirmed by the formation of chiral edge states in
$(MC_4S_4)_3$-BL nanoribbons. We show that the localization of the edge states
can be controlled with a normal external electric field, breaking the mirror
symmetry. Hence, the sign of electric field selects in which layer each set of
edge states are located. Such a control on the (layer) localization, of the
topological edge states, bring us an additional and interesting degree of
freedom to control the transport properties in layered metal-organic
topological insulator."  2017-05-25  "['de Lima', 'Ferreira', 'Miwa']"
1705.09380 "Topological Photonic Quasicrystals: Fractal Topological Spectrum and
  Protected Transport" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "We show that it is possible to have a topological phase in two-dimensional
quasicrystals without any magnetic field applied, but instead introducing an
artificial gauge field via dynamic modulation. This topological quasicrystal
exhibits scatter-free unidirectional edge states that are extended along the
system's perimeter, contrary to the states of an ordinary quasicrystal system,
which are characterized by power-law decay. We find that the spectrum of this
Floquet topological quasicrystal exhibits a rich fractal (self-similar)
structure of topological ""minigaps,"" manifesting an entirely new phenomenon:
fractal topological systems. These topological minigaps form only when the
system size is sufficiently large because their gapless edge states penetrate
deep into the bulk. Hence, the topological structure emerges as a function of
the system size, contrary to periodic systems where the topological phase can
be completely characterized by the unit cell. We demonstrate the existence of
this topological phase both by using a topological index (Bott index) and by
studying the unidirectional transport of the gapless edge states and its
robustness in the presence of defects. Our specific model is a Penrose lattice
of helical optical waveguides - a photonic Floquet quasicrystal; however, we
expect this new topological quasicrystal phase to be universal." 10.1103/PhysRevX.6.011016 2017-05-25  "['Bandres', 'Rechtsman', 'Segev']"
1705.09388 "Reducing Graphene Device Variability with Yttrium Sacrificial Layers" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Graphene technology has made great strides since the material was isolated
more than a decade ago. However, despite improvements in growth quality and
numerous 'hero' devices, challenges of uniformity remain, restricting
large-scale development of graphene-based technologies. Here we investigate and
reduce the variability of graphene transistors by studying the effects of
contact metals (with and without Ti layer), resist, and yttrium (Y) sacrificial
layers during the fabrication of hundreds of devices. We find that with optical
photolithography, residual resist and process contamination is unavoidable,
ultimately limiting device performance and yield. However, using Y sacrificial
layers to isolate the graphene from processing conditions improves the yield
(from 73% to 97%), average device performance (three-fold increase of mobility,
58% lower contact resistance), and the device-to-device variability (standard
deviation of Dirac voltage reduced by 20%). In contrast to other sacrificial
layer techniques, removal of the Y sacrificial layer with HCl does not harm
surrounding materials, simplifying large-scale graphene fabrication." 10.1063/1.4984090 2017-05-23  "['Wang', 'Carrion', 'Tung', 'Pop']"
1705.09389 "Solvable continuous time random walk model of the motion of tracer
  particles through porous media" cond-mat.stat-mech "We consider the continuous time random walk model (CTRW) of tracer's motion
in porous medium flows based on the experimentally determined distributions of
pore velocity and pore size reported in Holzner et al. Phys. Rev. E 92, 013015
(2015). The particle's passing through one channel is modelled as one step of
the walk. The step's (channel) length is random and the walker's velocity at
consecutive steps of the walk is conserved with finite probability mimicking
that at the turning point there could be no abrupt change of velocity. We
provide the Laplace transform of the characteristic function of the walker's
position and reductions for different cases of independence of the CTRW's
step's duration \tau, length l and velocity v. We solve our model with
independent l and v. The model incorporates different forms of the tail of the
probability density of small velocities that vary with the model parameter
\alpha. Depending on that parameter all types of anomalous diffusion can hold,
from super- to subdiffusion. In a finite interval of \alpha, ballistic behavior
with logarithmic corrections holds that was observed in a previously introduced
CTRW model with independent l and \tau. Universality of tracer's diffusion in
the porous medium is considered." 10.1103/PhysRevE.94.022132 2017-05-20  "['Fouxon', 'Holzner']"
1705.09394 "Study of Deteriorating Turquoise Lead-Potassium Glass Beads at Different
  Stages of Corrosion Using Micro-FTIR Spectroscopy" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Nowadays, problem of historic beadworks conservation in museum collections is
actual because of fatal corrosion of the 19th century glass beads. Vibrational
spectroscopy is a powerful method for investigation of glass, namely, of
correlation of the structure-chemical composition. Therefore, FTIR spectroscopy
was used for examination of degradation processes in cloudy turquoise glass
beads, which in contrast to other color ones deteriorate especially strongly.
Micro-X-ray fluorescence (XRF) spectrometry of samples has shown that
lead-potassium glass PbO-K$_2$O-SiO$_2$ with of small amount of Cu and Sb was
used for turquoise beads manufacture. Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR)
spectroscopy study of the beads at three different stages of glass corrosion
(intact, severely cracked with color alteration, partially fragmented) was
carried out in 600 to 4000 cm$^{-1}$ range in ATR mode. In all spectra we have
observed shifts of two major absorption bands to low-frequency range
($\sim\,$1000 and $\sim\,$775 cm$^{-1}$) compared to ones typical for amorphous
SiO$_2$ ($\sim\,$1100 and 800 cm$^{-1}$, respectively). Such effect is
connected with Pb$^{2+}$ and K$^+$ appending to the glass network. Presence of
weak band at $\sim\,$1630 cm$^{-1}$ in all spectra is attributed absorption of
H$_2$O. After heating of the beads, the band disappeared completely in less
deteriorated samples and became significantly weaker in more destroyed ones.
Based on that we conclude that there is adsorbed molecular water in the beads.
Products of glass corrosion (for example, alkali in the form of white crystals
or droplets of liquid alkali) were not observed on the glass surface."  2017-05-23  "['Kadikova', 'Morozova', 'Yuryeva', 'Grigorieva']"
1705.09441 "Low-energy spin dynamics of orthoferrites AFeO$_3$ (A = Y, La, Bi)" cond-mat.str-el "YFeO$_3$ and LaFeO$_3$ are members of the rare-earth orthoferrites family
with \textit{Pbnm} space group. Using inelastic neutron scattering, the
low-energy spin excitations have been measured around magnetic Brillouin zone
center. Splitting of magnon branches and non-zero magnon gap is observed for
both compounds, which is similar to the behavior observed in multiferroic
BiFeO$_3$. Spin wave calculations which include both Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya
interactions and single-ion anisotropy in the spin-Hamiltonian comprehensively
accounts for all the experimentally observed features. Our results offer
insight into the unifying physics underlying the Fe$^{3+}$-based perovskites as
well as their distinguishing characteristics."  2017-05-26 2017-05-29 "['Park', 'Sim', 'Leiner', 'Yoshida', 'Jeong', 'Yano', 'Gardner', 'Bourges', 'Klicpera', 'Sechovský', 'Boehm', 'Park']"
1705.09453 "Thermal elastic-wave attenuation in low-dimensional SiN$_{x}$ bars at
  low temperatures" cond-mat.mes-hall "At low temperatures, < 200 mK, the thermal flux through low-dimensional
amorphous dielectric bars, < 2 $\mu$m wide and 200 nm thick, is transported by
a small number of low-order elastic modes. For long bars, L > 400 $\mu$m, it is
known that the conductance scales as 1/L, where L is the length, but for short
bars, 1 $\mu$m < L < 400 $\mu$m, the length dependence is poorly known.
Although it is assumed that the transport must exhibit a diffusive to ballistic
transition, the functional form of the transition and the scale size over which
the transition occurs have not, to our knowledge, been measured. In this paper,
we use ultra-low-noise superconducting Transition Edge Sensors (TESs) to
measure the heat flux through a set of SiN$_{x}$ bars to establish the
characteristic scale size of the ballistic to diffusive transition. For bars
supporting 6 to 7 modes, we measure a thermal elastic-wave attenuation length
of 20 $\mu$m. The measurement is important because it sheds light on the
scattering processes, which in turn are closely related to the generation of
thermal fluctuation noise. Our own interest lies in creating patterned phononic
filters for controlling heat flow and thermal noise in ultra-low-noise devices,
but the work will be of interest to others trying to isolate devices from their
environments, and studying loss mechanisms in micro-mechanical resonators."  2017-05-26  "['Withington', 'Williams', 'Goldie', 'Thomas', 'Schneiderman']"
1705.09465 "Phase diagrams and free-energy landscapes for model spin-crossover
  materials with antiferromagnetic-like nearest-neighbor and ferromagnetic-like
  long-range interactions" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.other cond-mat.stat-mech" "We present phase diagrams, free-energy landscapes, and order-parameter
distributions for a model spin-crossover material with a two-step transition
between the high-spin and low-spin states (a square-lattice Ising model with
antiferromagnetic-like nearest-neighbor and ferromagnetic-like long-range
interactions) [P. A. Rikvold et al., Phys. Rev. B 93, 064109 (2016)]. The
results are obtained by a recently introduced, macroscopically constrained
Wang-Landau Monte Carlo simulation method [C. H. Chan, G. Brown, and P. A.
Rikvold, Phys. Rev. E 95, 053302 (2017)]. The method's computational efficiency
enables calculation of thermodynamic quantities for a wide range of
temperatures, applied fields, and long-range interaction strengths. For
long-range interactions of intermediate strength, tricritical points in the
phase diagrams are replaced by pairs of critical end points and mean-field
critical points that give rise to horn-shaped regions of metastability. The
corresponding free-energy landscapes offer insights into the nature of
asymmetric, multiple hysteresis loops that have been experimentally observed in
spin-crossover materials characterized by competing short-range interactions
and long-range elastic interactions."  2017-05-26  "['Chan', 'Brown', 'Rikvold']"
1705.09472 "Sub-nanometre resolution of atomic motion during electronic excitation
  in phase-change materials" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Phase-change materials based on Ge-Sb-Te alloys are widely used in industrial
applications such as nonvolatile memories, but reaction pathways for
crystalline-to-amorphous phase-change on picosecond timescales remain unknown.
Femtosecond laser excitation and an ultrashort x-ray probe is used to show the
temporal separation of electronic and thermal effects in a long-lived ($>$100
ps) transient metastable state of Ge$_{2}$Sb$_{2}$Te$_{5}$ with muted
interatomic interaction induced by a weakening of resonant bonding. Due to a
specific electronic state, the lattice undergoes a reversible nondestructive
modification over a nanoscale region, remaining cold for 4 ps. An independent
time-resolved x-ray absorption fine structure experiment confirms the existence
of an intermediate state with disordered bonds. This newly unveiled effect
allows the utilization of non-thermal ultra-fast pathways enabling artificial
manipulation of the switching process, ultimately leading to a redefined speed
limit, and improved energy efficiency and reliability of phase-change memory
technologies." 10.1038/srep20633 2017-05-26  "['Mitrofanov', 'Fons', 'Makino', 'Terashima', 'Shimada', 'Kolobov', 'Tominaga', 'Bragaglia', 'Giussani', 'Calarco', 'Riechert', 'Sato', 'Katayama', 'Ogawa', 'Togashi', 'Yabashi', 'Wall', 'Brewe', 'Hase']"
1705.09493 "Non-Hermitian description of the dynamics of inter-chain pair tunnelling" cond-mat.str-el "We study inter-chain pair tunnelling dynamics based on an exact two-particle
solution for a two-leg ladder. We show that the Hermitian Hamiltonian shares a
common two-particle eigenstate with a corresponding non-Hermitian Hubbard
Hamiltonian in which the non-Hermiticity arises from an on-site interaction of
imaginary strength. Our results provides that the dynamic processes of
two-particle collision and across-legs tunnelling are well described by the
effective non-Hermitian Hubbard Hamiltonian based on the eigenstate
equivalence. We also find that any common eigenstate is always associated with
the emergence of spectral singularity in the non-Hermitian Hubbard model. This
result is valid for both Bose and Fermi systems and provides a clear physical
implication of the non-Hermitian Hubbard model." 10.1103/PhysRevA.95.052122 2017-05-26  "['Zhang', 'Jin', 'Song']"
1705.09498 "Effect of one-dimensional superlattice potentials on the band gap of
  two-dimensional materials" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Using the tight-binding approach, we analyze the effect of a one-dimensional
superlattice (1DSL) potential on the electronic structure of black phosphorene
and transition metal dichalcogenides. We observe that the 1DSL potential
results in a decrease of the energy band gap of the two-dimensional (2D)
materials. An analytical model is presented to relate the decrease in the
direct-band gap to the different orbital characters between the valence band
top and conduction band bottom of the 2D materials. The direct-to-indirect gap
transition, which occurs under a 1DSL potential with an unequal barrier width,
is also discussed." 10.1063/1.4984069 2017-05-26  ['Ono']
1705.09521 "The phonon assisted absorption of excitons in Cu$_2$O" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "The basic theoretical foundation for the modelling of phonon assisted
absorption spectra in direct bandgap semiconductors, introduced by Elliott 60
years ago using second order perturbation theory, results in a square root
shaped dependency close to the absorption edge. A careful analysis of the
experiments reveals that for the yellow S excitons in Cu$_2$O the lineshape
does not follow that square root dependence. The reexamination of the theory
shows that the basic assumptions of constant matrix elements and constant
energy denominators is invalid for semiconductors with dominant exciton effects
like Cu$_2$O, where the phonon assisted absorption proceeds via intermediate
exciton states. The overlap between these and the final exciton states strongly
determines the dependence of the absorption on the photon energy. To describe
the experimental observed line shape of the indirect absorption of the yellow S
exciton states we find it necessary to assume a momentum dependent deformation
potential for the optical phonons. Furthermore, we are able to clarify the role
of the green excitons in the indirect absorption and find evidence for a light
hole exciton state."  2017-05-26  "['Schöne', 'Stolz', 'Naka']"
1705.09522 "Graphene on h-BN: to align or not to align?" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The contact strength, adhesion and friction, between graphene and an
incommensurate crystalline substrate such as {\it h}-BN depends on their
relative alignment angle $\theta$. The well established Novaco-McTague (NM)
theory predicts for a monolayer graphene on a hard bulk {\it h}-BN crystal face
a small spontaneous misalignment, here $\theta_{NM}$\,$\simeq$\,0.45 degrees
which if realized would be relevant to a host of electronic properties besides
the mechanical ones. Because experimental equilibrium is hard to achieve, we
inquire theoretically about alignment or misalignment by simulations based on
dependable state-of-the-art interatomic force fields. Surprisingly at first, we
find compelling evidence for $\theta = 0$, i.e., full energy-driven alignment
in the equilibrium state of graphene on {\it h}-BN. Two factors drive this
deviation from NM theory. First, graphene is not flat, developing on {\it h}-BN
a long-wavelength out-of-plane corrugation. Second, {\it h}-BN is not hard,
releasing its contact stress by planar contractions/expansions that accompany
the interface moir\'e structure. Repeated simulations by artificially forcing
graphene to keep flat, and {\it h}-BN to keep rigid, indeed yield an
equilibrium misalignment similar to $\theta_{NM}$ as expected. Subsequent
sliding simulations show that friction of graphene on {\it h}-BN, small and
essentially independent of misalignments in the artificial frozen state,
strongly increases in the more realistic corrugated, strain-modulated, aligned
state." 10.1039/C7NR02352A 2017-05-26  "['Guerra', 'van Wijk', 'Vanossi', 'Fasolino', 'Tosatti']"
1705.09524 "Towards meaningful physics from generative models" "hep-lat cond-mat.stat-mech cs.LG" "In several physical systems, important properties characterizing the system
itself are theoretically related with specific degrees of freedom. Although
standard Monte Carlo simulations provide an effective tool to accurately
reconstruct the physical configurations of the system, they are unable to
isolate the different contributions corresponding to different degrees of
freedom. Here we show that unsupervised deep learning can become a valid
support to MC simulation, coupling useful insights in the phases detection task
with good reconstruction performance. As a testbed we consider the 2D XY model,
showing that a deep neural network based on variational autoencoders can detect
the continuous Kosterlitz-Thouless (KT) transitions, and that, if endowed with
the appropriate constrains, they generate configurations with meaningful
physical content."  2017-05-26  "['Cristoforetti', 'Jurman', 'Nardelli', 'Furlanello']"
1705.09532 "Glass Transition in Supercooled Liquids with Medium Range Crystalline
  Order" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech" "The origins of rapid dynamical slow down in glass forming liquids in the
growth of static length scales, possibly associated with identifiable
structural ordering, is a much debated issue. Growth of medium range
crystalline order (MRCO) has been observed in various model systems to be
associated with glassy behaviour. Such observations raise the question about
the eventual state reached by a glass former, if allowed to relax for
sufficiently long times. Is a slowly growing crystalline order responsible for
slow dynamics? Are the molecular mechanisms for glass transition in liquids
with and without MRCO the same? If yes, glass formers with MRCO provide a
paradigm for understanding glassy behaviour generically. If not, systems with
MRCO form a new class of glass forming materials whose molecular mechanism for
slow dynamics may be easier to understand in terms of growing crystalline
order, and should be approached in that manner, even while they will not
provide generic insights. In this study we perform extensive molecular dynamics
simulations of a number of glass forming liquids in two dimensions and show
that the static and dynamic properties of glasses with MRCO are different from
other glass forming liquids with no predominant local order. We also resolve an
important issue regarding the so-called Point-to-set method for determining
static length scales, and demonstrate it to be a robust, order agnostic, method
for determining static correlation lengths in glass formers."  2017-05-26  "['Tah', 'Sengupta', 'Sastry', 'Dasgupta', 'Karmakar']"
1705.09534 "Peculiarities in the concentration dependence of the superconducting
  transition temperature in the bipolaron theory of Cooper pairs" cond-mat.supr-con "It is shown that the bipolaron theory of Cooper pairs suggests that there is
a possibility for a superconducting phase to exist at low and high levels of
doping and be absent at intermediate level of doping. The results obtained
imply possibly universal character of 1/8 anomaly." 10.1142/S0217984917501251 2017-05-26  ['Lakhno']
1705.09557 "Comparative Analysis of Current Component in InGaN-based Blue and
  AlGaInP-based Red Light-emitting Diode" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "In this paper, we aim to understand the apparent characteristics of IQE and
I-V curve in AlGaInP and InGaN LED devices. For the analysis, we separate the
current into radiative current and non-radiative current component by using the
information of IQE. We carefully analyze each current component by ideality
factor, S parameter, and the modified Shockley diode equation which is suitable
for LED device. Through the analyses, it has been found that the
characteristics of respective current components are basically similar for both
samples while the physical origin of the potential drop induced by radiative
current and the amount of double injection current induced non-radiative
current by are different. Compared with AlGaInP LEDs, the InGaN LEDs have
higher degrees of electron overflow initiated by low recombination rate in
active region, causing both the efficiency droop and the higher operating
voltage. To remedy this, the radiative recombination rate and/or the active
volume should be increased further."  2017-05-23  "['Han', 'Shim', 'Shin']"
1705.09576 "Andreev tunnelling and Josephson current in light irradiated graphene" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall" "We investigate the Andreev tunnelling and Josephson current in graphene
irradiated with high-frequency linearly polarized light. The irradiated
graphene transport behavior in high frequency limit turns out to be very
different from that of its normal counterpart bearing signatures of many
unusual features. For example, we see that the Andreev conductance is an
oscillatory function of the optical strength which experiences significant
reduction at subgap excitation energies. Additional zeroes in the Andreev bound
states spectrum surfaces as a result of the optical tuning. Our calculations
also reveal that the Josephson current at the charge neutrality point can be
efficiently tuned via irradiation. The supercurrent is enhanced and/or
suppressed relative to the normal graphene, depending on the direction of the
incident light. All these observations demonstrate a nice yet simple way of
controlling the quantum transport in Dirac-like systems and thus promises for
fruitful experimental ventures."  2017-05-26  "['Sinha', 'Kar']"
1705.09598 "When is a bit worth much more than kT ln2?" cond-mat.stat-mech "Physical processes thatobtain, process, and erase information involve
tradeoffs between information and energy. The fundamental energetic value of a
bit of information exchanged with a reservoir at temperature T is kT ln2. This
paper investigates the situation in which information is missing about just
what physical process is about to take place. The fundamental energetic value
of such information can be far greater than kT ln2 per bit."  2017-05-26  "['Gokler', 'Kolchinsky', 'Liu', 'Marvian', 'Shor', 'Shtanko', 'Thompson', 'Wolpert', 'Lloyd']"
1705.09603 "Multiple scales and phases in discrete chains with application to folded
  proteins" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.stat-mech physics.bio-ph q-bio.BM" "Chiral heteropolymers such as larger globular proteins can simultaneously
support multiple length scales. The interplay between different scales brings
about conformational diversity, and governs the structure of the energy
landscape. Multiple scales produces also complex dynamics, which in the case of
proteins sustains live matter. However, thus far no clear understanding exist,
how to distinguish the various scales that determine the structure and dynamics
of a complex protein. Here we propose a systematic method to identify the
scales in chiral heteropolymers such as a protein. For this we introduce a
novel order parameter, that not only reveals the scales but also probes the
phase structure. In particular, we argue that a chiral heteropolymer can
simultaneously display traits of several different phases, contingent on the
length scale at which it is scrutinized. Our approach builds on a variant of
Kadanoff's block-spin transformation that we employ to coarse grain piecewise
linear chains such as the C$\alpha$ backbone of a protein. We derive
analytically and then verify numerically a number of properties that the order
parameter can display. We demonstrate how, in the case of crystallographic
protein structures in Protein Data Bank, the order parameter reveals the
presence of different length scales, and we propose that a relation must exist
between the scales, phases, and the complexity of folding pathways."  2017-05-26  "['Sinelnikova', 'Niemi', 'Nilsson', 'Ulybyshev']"
1705.09604 "Symmetries and scaling in generalised coupled conserved
  Kardar-Parisi-Zhang equations" cond-mat.stat-mech "We study the noisy nonequilibrium dynamics of a conserved density that is
driven by a fluctuating surface governed by the conserved Kardar-Parisi-Zhang
equation. We uncover the universal scaling properties of the conserved density.
We consider two separate minimal models where the surface fluctuations couple
with (i) the spatial variation the conserved density, and (ii) directly with
the magnitude of the conserved density. Both these two models conserve the
density, but differ from symmetry stand point. We use our result to highlight
the dependence of nonequilibrium universality classes on the interplay between
symmetries and conservation laws."  2017-05-26  "['Banerjee', 'Basu']"
1705.09607 "Quantum dark solitons in Bose gas confined in a hard wall box" "cond-mat.quant-gas nlin.PS quant-ph" "Schr\""odinger equation for Bose gas with repulsive contact interactions in
one-dimensional space may be solved analytically with the help of the Bethe
ansatz if we impose periodic boundary conditions. It was shown that in such a
system there exist many-body eigenstates directly corresponding to dark soliton
solutions of the mean-field equation. The system is still integrable if one
switches from the periodic boundary conditions to an infinite square well
potential. The corresponding eigenstates were constructed by M. Gaudin. We
analyze weak interaction limit of Gaudin's solutions and identify
parametrization of eigenstates strictly connected with single and multiple dark
solitons. Numerical simulations of detection of particle's positions reveal
dark solitons in the weak interaction regime and their quantum nature in the
presence of strong interactions."  2017-05-26  "['Syrwid', 'Sacha']"
1705.09611 "Interface Contributions to Topological Entanglement in Abelian
  Chern-Simons Theory" "cond-mat.str-el hep-th" "We study the entanglement entropy between (possibly distinct) topological
phases across an interface using an Abelian Chern-Simons description with
topological boundary conditions (TBCs) at the interface. From a microscopic
point of view, these TBCs correspond to turning on particular gapping
interactions between the edge modes across the interface. However, in studying
entanglement in the continuum Chern-Simons description, we must confront the
problem of non-factorization of the Hilbert space, which is a standard property
of gauge theories. We carefully define the entanglement entropy by using an
extended Hilbert space construction directly in the continuum theory. We show
how a given TBC isolates a corresponding gauge invariant state in the extended
Hilbert space, and hence compute the resulting entanglement entropy. We find
that the sub-leading correction to the area law remains universal, but depends
on the choice of topological boundary conditions. This agrees with the
microscopic calculation of \cite{Cano:2014pya}. Additionally, we provide a
replica path integral calculation for the entropy. In the case when the
topological phases across the interface are taken to be identical, our
construction gives a novel explanation of the equivalence between the
left-right entanglement of (1+1)d Ishibashi states and the spatial entanglement
of (2+1)d topological phases."  2017-05-26  "['Fliss', 'Wen', 'Parrikar', 'Hsieh', 'Han', 'Hughes', 'Leigh']"
1705.09645 "Anderson localization of light: Strong dependence with incident angle -
  Supplementary Information" cond-mat.mes-hall "Anderson localization of light and associated phenomena has greatly attracted
the attention of researchers in the past few decades. This paper studies the
transport of light for different incidence angles in a strongly disordered
optical medium composed by core-shell nanoparticles (TiO2@Silica) suspended in
ethanol solution. A decrease of optical conductance and an increase of absorbed
energy are reported when the incidence angle is increased. This phenomenon was
associated to the large increase of internal reflection with the incidence
angle, which is a direct consequence of the enhanced refractive index near the
input surface by localization. The specular reflection, measured for the
photons that enter the sample, is considerably lower than the effective
internal reflection undergone by the coherently backscattered photons in the
exactly opposite direction, indicating a non-reciprocal propagation of light
(mirror-symmetry breaking). This study represents a novel approach in order to
understand the complex physics involved in a disordered optical medium at the
critical regime of localization."  2017-05-26  "['Jimenez-Villar', 'Xavier', 'Mestre', 'Martins', 'Basso', 'de Sa']"
1705.09659 "Role of the spin-orbit coupling in the Kugel-Khomskii model on the
  honeycomb lattice" cond-mat.str-el "We study the effective spin-orbital model for honeycomb-layered transition
metal compounds, applying the second-order perturbation theory to the
three-orbital Hubbard model with the anisotropic hoppings. This model is
reduced to the Kitaev model in the strong spin-orbit coupling limit. Combining
the cluster mean-field approximations with the exact diagonalization, we treat
the Kugel-Khomskii type superexchange interaction and spin-orbit coupling on an
equal footing to discuss ground-state properties. We find that a zigzag ordered
state is realized in the model within nearest-neighbor interactions. We clarify
how the ordered state competes with the nonmagnetic state, which is
adiabatically connected to the quantum spin liquid state realized in a strong
spin-orbit coupling limit. Thermodynamic properties are also addressed. The
present work should provide another route to account for the Kitaev-based
magnetic properties in candidate materials."  2017-05-26  "['Koga', 'Nakauchi', 'Nasu']"
1705.09679 "Quantum fidelity approach to the ground state properties of the 1D ANNNI
  model in a transverse field" cond-mat.stat-mech "In this work we analyze the ground-state properties of the $s=1/2$
one-dimensional ANNNI model in a transverse field using the quantum fidelity
approach. We numerically determined the fidelity susceptibility as a function
of the transverse field $B_x$ and the strength of the next-nearest-neighbor
interaction $J_2$, for systems of up to 24 spins. We also examine the
ground-state vector with respect to the spatial ordering of the spins. The
ground-state phase diagram shows ferromagnetic, paramagnetic, floating,
$\Braket{2,2}$ phases, and we predict an infinite number of modulated phases in
the thermodynamic limit ($L \rightarrow \infty$). The transition lines
separating the modulated phases seem to be of second-order, whereas the line
between the floating and the $\Braket{2,2}$ phases is possibly of first-order."  2017-05-26  "['Bonfim', 'Boechat', 'Florencio']"
1705.09686 "Cross Dimensionality and Emergent Nodal Superconductivity with
  $p$-orbital Atomic Fermions" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "I study cross dimensionality of $p$-orbital atomic fermions loaded in an
optical square lattice with repulsive interactions. The cross-dimensionality
emerges when the transverse tunneling of $p$-orbital fermions is negligible.
With renormalization group analysis, the system is found to support two
dimensional charge, orbital, and spin density wave states with incommensurate
wavevectors. The transition temperatures of these states are controlled by
perturbations near a one dimensional Luttinger liquid fixed point. Considering
transverse tunneling, the cross-dimensionality breaks down and the density wave
(DW) orders become unstable, and I find an unconventional superconducting state
mediated by fluctuation effects. The superconducting gap has an emergent nodal
structure determined by the Fermi momentum, which is tunable by controlling
atomic density. Taking an effective description of the superconducting state,
it is shown that the nodal structure of Cooper pairing can be extracted from
momentum-space radio-frequency spectroscopy in atomic experiments. These
results imply that $p$-orbital fermions could enrich the possibilities of
studying correlated physics in optical lattice quantum emulators beyond the
single-band Fermi Hubbard model."  2017-05-26  ['Li']
1705.09687 "Convergence from Divergence" "hep-th cond-mat.other math-ph math.MP" "We show how to convert divergent series, which typically occur in many
applications in physics, into rapidly convergent inverse factorial series. This
can be interpreted physically as a novel resummation of perturbative series.
Being convergent, these new series allow rigorous extrapolation from an
asymptotic region with a large parameter, to the opposite region where the
parameter is small. We illustrate the method with various physical examples,
and discuss how these convergent series relate to standard methods such as
Borel summation, and also how they incorporate the physical Stokes phenomenon.
We comment on the relation of these results to Dyson's physical argument for
the divergence of perturbation theory. This approach also leads naturally to a
wide class of relations between bosonic and fermionic partition functions, and
Klein-Gordon and Dirac determinants."  2017-05-26  "['Costin', 'Dunne']"
1705.09699 "Single Molecule Ferroelectrics via Conformational Inversion: An
  Electronic Structure Investigation" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Ferroelectric materials can switch their polarization in response to an
applied electric field. In this work, ferroelectricity at the single molecule
level is proposed and investigated using density functional theory (DFT)
calculations. Several bowl-shaped molecules, both synthetically reported and
hypothetically proposed, are shown to invert polarization in response to
external applied electric fields. Such a polarization inversion relies on the
conformational change of a single molecule, unlike its traditional counterparts
of which ferroelectricity originates from the switch of an asymmetrical polar
unit cell in inorganic crystals, or from the polar polymer chain rotation of
ferroelectric polymers. We discuss both structural and functional group factors
in determining the inversion electric field and the design rules for good
single molecule ferroelectrics. A conceptual multistate ferroelectric model is
discussed for single molecule ferroelectrics."  2017-05-26  "['Quan', 'Hutchison']"
1705.09709 "Improving the Functional Control of Aged Ferroelectrics using Insights
  from Atomistic Modelling" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We provide a fundamental insight into the microscopic mechanisms of the
ageing processes. Using large scale molecular dynamics simulations of the
prototypical ferroelectric material PbTiO3, we demonstrate that the
experimentally observed ageing phenomena can be reproduced from intrinsic
interactions of defect-dipoles related to dopant-vacancy associates, even in
the absence of extrinsic effects. We show that variation of the dopant
concentration modifies the material's hysteretic response. We identify a
universal method to reduce loss and tune the electromechanical properties of
inexpensive ceramics for efficient technologies."  2017-05-26  "['Chapman', 'Cohen', 'Kimmel', 'Duffy']"
1705.09714 "Optical charge state control of spin defects in 4H-SiC" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci quant-ph" "Defects in silicon carbide (SiC) have emerged as a favorable platform for
optically-active spin-based quantum technologies. Spin qubits exist in specific
charge states of these defects, where the ability to control these states can
provide enhanced spin-dependent readout and long-term charge stability of the
qubits. We investigate this charge state control for two major spin qubits in
4H-SiC, the divacancy (VV) and silicon vacancy (Vsi), obtaining bidirectional
optical charge conversion between the bright and dark states of these defects.
We measure increased photoluminescence from VV ensembles by up to three orders
of magnitude using near-ultraviolet excitation, depending on the substrate, and
without degrading the electron spin coherence time. This charge conversion
remains stable for hours at cryogenic temperatures, allowing spatial and
persistent patterning of the relative charge state populations. We develop a
comprehensive model of the defects and optical processes involved, offering a
strong basis to improve material design and to develop quantum applications in
SiC."  2017-05-26  "['Wolfowicz', 'Anderson', 'Yeats', 'Whiteley', 'Niklas', 'Poluektov', 'Heremans', 'Awschalom']"
1705.09720 "Photoemission Circular Dichroism and Spin Polarization of the
  Topological Surface States in Ultrathin Bi2Te3 Films" cond-mat.mes-hall "Circular dichroism (CD) observed by photoemission, being sensitive to the
orbital and spin angular momenta of the electronic states, is a powerful probe
of the nontrivial surface states of topological insulators, but the
experimental results thus far have eluded a comprehensive description. We
report a study of Bi2Te3 films with thicknesses ranging from one quintuple
layer (two-dimensional limit) to twelve layers (bulk limit) over a wide range
of incident photon energy. The data show complex variations in magnitude and
sign reversals, which are nevertheless well described by a theoretical
calculation including all three photoemission mechanisms: dipole transition,
surface photoemission, and spin-orbit coupling. The results establish the
nontrivial connection between the spin-orbit texture and CD." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.115.016801 2017-05-26  "['Xu', 'Liu', 'Yukawa', 'Zhang', 'Matsuda', 'Miller', 'Chiang']"
1705.09721 "New stationary solutions of the cubic nonlinear Schr\""odinger equations
  for Bose-Einstein condensates" "math-ph cond-mat.quant-gas math.MP" "We have previously formulated a simple criterion for deducing the intervals
of oscillations in the solutions of second-order linear homogeneous
differential equations. In this work, we extend analytically the same criterion
to the cubic nonlinear Schr\""odinger equations that describe Bose-Einstein
condensates. With this criterion guiding the search for solutions, we classify
all types of solutions and we find new stationary solutions in the
free-particle cases that were not noticed previously because of limited
coverage in the adopted boundary conditions. The new solutions are produced by
the nonlinear terms of the differential equations and they continue to exist
when various external potentials are also incorporated. Surprisingly, these
solutions appear when the nonlinearities are small."  2017-05-26  "['Katatbeh', 'Christodoulou']"
1705.09726 "Edge waves and localisation in lattices containing tilted resonators" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The paper presents the study of waves in a structured geometrically chiral
solid. A special attention is given to the analysis of the Bloch-Floquet waves
in a doubly periodic high-contrast lattice containing tilted resonators.
Dirac-like dispersion of Bloch waves in the structure is identified, studied
and applied to wave-guiding and wave-defect interaction problems. The work is
extended to the transmission problems and models of fracture, where
localisation and edge waves occur. The theoretical derivations are accompanied
with numerical simulations and illustrations."  2017-05-26  "['Tallarico', 'Trevisan', 'Movchan', 'Movchan']"
1705.09739 "Nonlinear light mixing by graphene plasmons" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "Graphene is known to possess strong optical nonlinearity. Its nonlinear
response can be further enhanced by graphene plasmons. Here, we report a novel
nonlinear electro-absorption effect observed in nanostructured graphene due to
excitation of graphene plasmons. We experimentally detect and theoretically
explain enhanced nonlinear mixing of near-infrared and mid-infrared light in
arrays of graphene nanoribbons. Strong compression of light by graphene
plasmons implies that the effect is non-local in nature and orders of magnitude
larger than the conventional local graphene nonlinearity. The effect can be
used in variety of applications including nonlinear light modulators, light
multiplexors, light logic, and sensing devices."  2017-05-26  "['Kundys', 'Van Duppen', 'Marshall', 'Rodriguez', 'Torre', 'Tomadin', 'Polini', 'Grigorenko']"
1705.09740 "Synthesis, magnetic properties and electronic structure of S = 1/2
  uniform spin chain system InCuPO5" cond-mat.str-el "We have studied the structural, magnetic properties, and electronic structure
of the compound InCuPO5 synthesized by solid state reaction method. The
structure of InCuPO5 comprises of S = 1/2 uniform spin chains formed by
corner-shared CuO4 units. Magnetic susceptibility chi(T) data shows a broad
maximum at about 65 K, a characteristic feature of one-dimensional (1D)
magnetism. The chi(T) data is fitted to the coupled, S = 1/2 Heisenberg
antiferromagnetic (HAFM) uniform chain model that gives the intra-chain
coupling (J/kB) between nearest neighbour Cu2+ ions as -100 K and the ratio of
inter-chain to intra-chain coupling (J'/J) as about 0.07. The exchange
couplings estimated from the magnetic data analysis are in good agreement with
the computed values from the electronic structure calculations based on density
functional theory + Hubbard U (DFT+U) approach. The combination of theoretical
and experimental analysis confirms that InCuPO5 is a candidate material for
weakly coupled S = 1/2 uniform chains. A detailed theoretical analysis of the
electronic structure further reveals that the system is insulating with a gap
of 2.4 eV and a local moment of 0.70 muB /Cu."  2017-05-26  "['Koteswararao', 'Hazra', 'Rout', 'Srinivasarao', 'Srinath', 'Panda']"
1705.09752 "Chiral modes at exceptional points in exciton-polariton quantum fluids" "cond-mat.quant-gas quant-ph" "We demonstrate generation of chiral modes -- vortex flows with fixed
handedness in exciton-polariton quantum fluids. The chiral modes arise in the
vicinity of exceptional points (non-Hermitian spectral degeneracies) in an
optically-induced resonator for exciton polaritons. In particular, a vortex is
generated by driving two dipole modes of the non-Hermitian ring resonator into
degeneracy. Transition through the exceptional point in the space of the
system's parameters is enabled by precise manipulation of real and imaginary
parts of the closed-wall potential forming the resonator. As the system is
driven to the vicinity of the exceptional point, we observe the formation of a
vortex state with a fixed orbital angular momentum (topological charge). Our
method can be extended to generate high-order orbital angular momentum states
through coalescence of multiple non-Hermitian spectral degeneracies, which
could find application in integrated optoelectronics."  2017-05-26  "['Gao', 'Li', 'Estrecho', 'Liew', 'Comber-Todd', 'Nalitov', 'Steger', 'West', 'Pfeiffer', 'Snoke', 'Kavokin', 'Truscott', 'Ostrovskaya']"
1705.09774 "Magnetic and magnetotransport properties of ThCr2Si2-type Ce2O2Bi
  composed of conducting Bi2- square net and magnetic Ce-O layer" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "ThCr2Si2-type Ce2O2Bi epitaxial thin films were grown by recently developed
multilayer solid phase epitaxy. The ionic state of Ce was confirmed to be 3+ by
x-ray photoelectron spectroscopy, corresponding to the electronic configuration
of [Xe]4f1. Electrical resistivity showed the nonmonotonic temperature
dependence with a sharp resistivity maximum, concomitant with a magnetization
kink at 10 K, suggesting antiferromagnetic transition. In addition,
magnetoresistance showed a large angular-dependent magnetoresistance. These
results imply that carrier transport in the Bi2- square net could be influenced
by magnetic ordering in the Ce-O layer owing to its unique layered structure
[Bi2-/(Ce2O2)2+], particularly in the form of epitaxial thin films." 10.1063/1.4983280 2017-05-27  "['Shibata', 'Sei', 'Fukumura', 'Hasegawa']"
1705.09788 "High transport current superconductivity in powder-in-tube
  Ba0.6K0.4Fe2As2 tapes at 27 tesla" cond-mat.supr-con "The high upper critical field and low anisotropy of iron-based
superconductors make them being particularly attractive for high-field
applications. However, the current carrying capability needs to be enhanced by
overcoming the weak-link effect between misaligned grains inside wire and tape
conductors. Here we demonstrate a high transport critical current density (Jc)
reaching 1.5x10^5 A/cm^2 (Ic = 437 A) at 4.2 K and 10 T in Ba0.6K0.4Fe2As2
(Ba-122) tapes prepared by a combination of conventional powder-in-tube method
and optimized hot-press technique. The transport Jc measured at 4.2 K under
high magnetic fields of 27 T is still on the level of 5.5x10^4 A/cm^2, which is
much higher than those of low-temperature superconductors. This is the first
report of hot-pressed Ba-122 superconducting tapes and these Jc values are by
far the highest ever reported for iron-based superconducting wires and tapes.
These high-performance tapes exhibit high degree of c-axis texture of Ba-122
grains and low anisotropy of transport Jc, showing great potential for
construction of high-field superconducting magnets."  2017-05-27  "['Huang', 'Yao', 'Dong', 'Zhang', 'Wang', 'Cheng', 'Li', 'Awaji', 'Ma']"
1705.09821 "Landau Levels for monolayer graphene in the symmetric gauge" "cond-mat.str-el hep-th quant-ph" "Starting from the symmetric gauge and the zero modes of the monolayer
graphene Dirac equation, we develop a mechanism to construct the eigenvalues
and its eigenfunctions. Specifically, we show that for positive configurations
of magnetic fields, we can construct the successive eigenstates from the zero
energy state with negative chirality. We also show that for negative magnetic
fields, the eigenstates may be constructed form the zero mode with positive
quirality. In addition, we discuss the implications that the Aharonov-Casher
theorem, for zero energy states, has in our problem"  2017-05-27  ['Sourrouille']
1705.09824 "Internal temperature of quantum chaotic systems at the nanoscale and its
  detection by a microscopic thermometer" cond-mat.stat-mech "The extent to which a temperature can be appropriately assigned to a small
quantum system, as an internal property but not as a property of any large
environment, is still an open problem. In this paper, a method is proposed for
solving this problem, by which a studied system is coupled to a two-level
system (probe) as a microscopic thermometer. For small quantum chaotic systems,
we show that a temperature can be determined, the value of which is sensitive
to neither the form, location, and strength of the probe-system coupling, nor
the Hamiltonian and initial state of the probe. This temperature turns out to
have the form of Boltzmann temperature."  2017-05-27  "['Wang', 'Wang']"
1705.09856 "Strain induced incommensurate phases in hexagonal manganites" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "An incommensurate phase refers to a solid state in which the period of a
superstructure is incommensurable with the primitive unit cell. Recently the
incommensurate phase is induced by applying an in-plane strain to hexagonal
manganites, which demonstrates single chiral modulation of six domain variants.
Here we employ Landau theory in combination with the phase-field method to
investigate the incommensurate phase in hexagonal manganites. It is shown that
the equilibrium wave length of the incommensurate phase is determined by
temperature and the magnitude of the applied strain, and a temperature-strain
phase diagram is constructed for the stability of the incommensurate phase.
Temporal evolution of domain structures reveals that the applied strain not
only produces the force pulling the vortices and anti-vortices in opposite
directions, but also results in the creation and annihilation of
vortex-antivortex pairs."  2017-05-27  "['Xue', 'Wang', 'Cheong', 'Chen']"
1705.09867 "Three-dimensional vortex structures and dynamics in hexagonal manganites" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Hexagonal manganites REMnO3 (RE, rare earths) have attracted significant
attention due to their potential applications as multiferroic materials and the
intriguing physics associated with the topological defects. The two-dimensional
(2D) and 3D domain and vortex structure evolution of REMnO3 is predicted using
the phase-field method based on a thermodynamic potential constructed from
first-principles calculations. In 3D spaces, vortex lines show three types of
topological changes, i.e. shrinking, coalescence, and splitting, with the
latter two caused by the interaction and exchange of vortex loops. Compared to
the coarsening rate of the isotropic XY model, the six-fold degeneracy gives
rise to negligible differences with the vortex-antivortex annihilation
controlling the scaling dynamics, whereas the anisotropy of interfacial energy
results in a deviation. The temporal evolution of domain and vortex structures
serves as a platform to fully explore the mesoscale mechanisms for the 0-D and
1-D topological defects."  2017-05-27  "['Xue', 'Wang', 'Wang', 'Ji', 'Cheong', 'Chen']"
1705.09885 "Breakdown of single spin-fluid model in heavily hole-doped
  superconductor CsFe2As2" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.str-el" "Although Fe-based superconductors are multiorbital correlated electronic
systems, previous nuclei magnetic resonance (NMR) measurement suggests that a
single spin-fluid model is sufficient to describe its spin behavior. Here, we
firstly observed the breakdown of single spin-fluid model in a heavily
hole-doped Fe-based superconductor CsFe2As2 by site-selective NMR measurement.
At high temperature regime, both of Knight shift and nuclei spin-lattice
relaxation at 133Cs and 75As nuclei exhibit distinct temperature-dependent
behavior, suggesting the breakdown of single spin-fluid model in CsFe2As2. This
is ascribed to the coexistence of both localized and itinerant spin degree of
freedom at 3d orbits, which is consistent with orbital-selective Mott phase.
However, single spin-fluid behavior is gradually recovered by developing a
coherent state among 3d orbits with decreasing temperature. A Kondo liquid
scenario is proposed for the low-temperature coherent state. The present work
sets strong constraint on the theoretical model for Fe-based superconductors."  2017-05-27  "['Zhao', 'Li', 'Wang', 'Li', 'Song', 'Zheng', 'Nie', 'Luo', 'Wu', 'Chen']"
1705.09901 "Observation of novel gapped phases in potassium doped single layer
  p-terphenyl on Au (111)" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "Recently, superconductivity in potassium (K) doped p-terphenyl (C18H14) has
been suggested by the possible observation of the Meissner effect and
subsequent photoemission spectroscopy measurements, but the detailed lattice
structure and more-direct evidence are still lacking. Here we report a low
temperature scanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy (STM/STS) study on
K-doped single layer p-terphenyl films grown on Au (111). We observe several
ordered phases with different morphologies and electronic behaviors, in two of
which a sharp and symmetric low-energy gap of about 11 meV opens below 50 K. In
particular, the gap shows no obvious response to a magnetic field up to 11
Tesla, which would caution against superconductivity as an interpretation in
previous reports of K-doped p-terphenyl materials. Such gapped phases are
rarely (if ever) observed in single layer hydrocarbon molecular crystals. Our
work also paves the way for fabricating doped two-dimensional (2D) hydrocarbon
materials, which will provide a platform to search for novel emergent
phenomena."  2017-05-28  "['Ren', 'Chen', 'Liu', 'Chen', 'Qiao', 'Chen', 'Zhou', 'Zhang', 'Yan', 'Feng']"
1705.09909 "Local magnetic measurements of permanent current paths in a natural
  graphite crystal" cond-mat.supr-con "A recently reported transition in the electrical resistance of different
natural graphite samples suggests the existence of superconductivity at room
temperature. To check whether dissipationless electrical currents are
responsible for the trapped magnetic flux inferred from electrical resistance
measurements, we localized them using magnetic force microscopy on a natural
graphite sample in remanent state after applying a magnetic field. The obtained
evidence indicates that at room temperature a permanent current flows at the
border of the trapped flux region. The current path vanishes at the same
transition temperature $T_c \simeq 370~$K as the one obtained from electrical
resistance measurements on the same sample. The overall results support the
existence of room-temperature superconductivity at certain regions in the
graphite structure and show that the used method is suitable to localize the
superconducting regions."  2017-05-28  "['Stiller', 'Esquinazi', 'Precker', 'Barzola-Quiquia']"
1705.09915 "Nonlinear anomalous photocurrents in Weyl semimetals" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "We study the second-order nonlinear optical response of a Weyl semimetal
(WSM), i.e. a three-dimensional metal with linear band touchings acting as
point-like sources of Berry curvature in momentum space, termed ""Weyl-Berry
monopoles"". We first show that the anomalous second-order photocurrent of WSMs
can be elegantly parametrized in terms of Weyl-Berry dipole and quadrupole
moments. We then calculate the corresponding charge and node conductivities of
WSMs with either broken time-reversal invariance or inversion symmetry. In
particular, we predict a universal dissipationless second-order anomalous node
conductivity for WSMs belonging to the TaAs family."  2017-05-28  "['Rostami', 'Polini']"
1705.09926 "Chiral magnetic effect of light" "physics.optics cond-mat.mes-hall hep-ph hep-th" "We study a photonic analogue of the chiral magnetic/vortical effect in
geometric optics. We discuss that the vector component of magnetoelectric
tensors plays a role of gravitational fields, and its rotation causes the
Coriolis force in a ray of light. The Coriolis force results in anomalous shift
of a ray of light through an interplay with the Berry curvature of photons. The
mechanism is the same as that of the chiral magnetic/vortical effect of a
chiral fermion. As a result, magnetoelectric material can act as a chiral
(helical) prism, which separates lights according to their helicities."  2017-05-28  ['Hayata']
1705.09942 "Observation of the Mott Insulator to Superfluid Crossover of a
  Driven-Dissipative Bose-Hubbard System" cond-mat.quant-gas "Dissipation is ubiquitous in nature and plays a crucial role in quantum
systems such as causing decoherence of quantum states. Recently, much attention
has been paid to an intriguing possibility of dissipation as an efficient tool
for preparation and manipulation of quantum states. Here we report the
successful demonstration of a novel role of dissipation using cold atoms. We
realize an engineered dissipative Bose-Hubbard system by introducing a
controllable strength of two-body inelastic collision via photo-association for
ultracold bosons in a three-dimensional optical lattice. In the dynamics
subjected to a slow ramp-down of the optical lattice, we find that strong
dissipation favors the Mott insulating state: the melting of the Mott insulator
is delayed and the growth of the phase coherence is suppressed. The
controllability of the dissipation is highlighted by quenching the dissipation,
providing a novel method for investigating a quantum many-body state and its
non-equilibrium dynamics. This work paves a way for a wide range of researches
in which the novel role of the dissipation can be exploited."  2017-05-28  "['Tomita', 'Nakajima', 'Danshita', 'Takasu', 'Takahashi']"
1705.09961 "Large-scale structure and hyperuniformity of amorphous ices" cond-mat.stat-mech "We investigate the large-scale structure of amorphous ices and transitions
between their different forms by quantifying their large-scale density
fluctuations. Specifically, we simulate the isothermal compression of
low-density amorphous ice (LDA) and hexagonal ice (Ih) to produce high-density
amorphous ice (HDA). Remarkably, both HDA and LDA are nearly hyperuniform,
meaning that they are characterized by an anomalous suppression of large-scale
density fluctuations. By contrast, in correspondence with both non-equilibrium
phase transitions to HDA, the presence of structural heterogeneities strongly
suppresses the hyperuniformity and, remarkably, the system becomes
hyposurficial (devoid of ""surface-area"" fluctuations). Our investigation
challenges the largely accepted ""frozen-liquid"" picture, which views glasses as
structurally arrested liquids. Beyond implications for water, our findings
enrich our understanding of the structural transformations that occur in
glasses with varying pressures."  2017-05-28  "['Martelli', 'Torquato', 'Giovambattista', 'Car']"
1705.09963 "Vibronic coupling in C$_{60}^-$ anion revisited: Precise derivations
  from photoelectron spectra and DFT calculations" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The vibronic coupling constants of C$_{60}^-$ are derived from the
photoelectron spectrum measured by Wang {\it et al}. [X. B. Wang, H. K. Woo,
and L. S. Wang, J. Chem. Phys., {\bf 123}, 051106 (2005).] at low temperature
with high-resolutions. We find that the couplings of the Jahn-Teller modes of
C$_{60}^-$ are weaker than the couplings reported by Gunnarsson {\it et al}.
[O. Gunnarsson, H. Handschuh, P. S. Bechthold, B. Kessler, G. Gantef{\""{o}}r,
and W. Eberhardt, Phys. Rev. Lett., {\bf 74}, 1875 (1995).]. The total
stabilization energy after $h_g$ and $a_g$ modes is reduced with respect to the
previous derivation of Gunnarsson {\it et al}. by 30 \%. The computed vibronic
coupling constants using DFT with B3LYP functional agree well with the new
experimental constants, so the discrepancy between theory and experiment
persistent in the previous studies is basically solved." 10.1103/PhysRevB.82.245409 2017-05-28  "['Iwahara', 'Sato', 'Tanaka', 'Chibotaru']"
1705.09984 "Density dependence of relaxation dynamics in glass formers, and the
  dependence of their fragility on the softness of inter-particle interactions" cond-mat.soft "Fragility, quantifying the rapidity of variation of relaxation times, is
analysed for a series of model glass formers, which differ in the softness of
their interparticle interactions. In an attempt to rationalize experimental
observations in colloidal suspensions that softer interactions lead to stronger
(less fragile) glass formers, we study the variation of relaxation dynamics
with density, rather than temperature, as a control parameter. We employ
density temperature scaling, analyzed in recent studies, to address the
question. We find that while employing inverse density in place of temperature
leads to the conclusion that softer interactions lead to stronger behaviour,
the use of scaled variables involving temperature and density lead to the
opposite conclusion, similarly to earlier investigations where temperature
variation of relaxation dynamics was analysed for the same systems. We
rationalize our results by considering the Adam-Gibbs (AG) fragility, which
incorporates the density dependence of the configurational entropy and an
activation energy that may arise from other properties of a glass former.
Within the framework of the Adam-Gibbs relation, by employing density
temperature scaling for the analysis, we find that softer particles make more
fragile glasses, as deduced from dynamical quantities, which is found to be
consistent with the Adam-Gibbs fragility."  2017-05-28  "['Parmar', 'Kundu', 'Sastry']"
1705.10008 "Multiscale simulation on shearing transitions of thin-film lubrication
  with multi-layer molecules" "physics.chem-ph cond-mat.soft" "Shearing transitions of multi-layer molecularly thin-film lubrication systems
in variations of the film-substrate coupling strength and the load are studied
by using a multiscale method. Three kinds of the interlayer slips found in
decreasing the coupling strength are in qualitative agreement with experimental
results. Although tribological behaviors are almost insensitive to the smaller
coupling strength, they and the effective film thickness are enlarged more and
more as the larger one increases. When the load increases, the tribological
behaviors are similar to those in increasing coupling strength, but the
effective film thickness is opposite." 10.1016/j.cplett.2017.04.079 2017-05-28  "['Wu', 'Zeng']"
1705.10014 "Design of Lead-Free Inorganic Halide Perovskites for Solar Cells via
  Cation-Transmutation" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Hybrid organic-inorganic halide perovskites with the prototype material of
CH$_{3}$NH$_{3}$PbI$_{3}$ have recently attracted intense interest as low-cost
and high-performance photovoltaic absorbers. Despite the high power conversion
efficiency exceeding 20% achieved by their solar cells, two key issues -- the
poor device stabilities associated with their intrinsic material instability
and the toxicity due to water soluble Pb$^{2+}$ -- need to be resolved before
large-scale commercialization. Here, we address these issues by exploiting the
strategy of cation-transmutation to design stable inorganic Pb-free halide
perovskites for solar cells. The idea is to convert two divalent Pb$^{2+}$ ions
into one monovalent M$^{+}$ and one trivalent M$^{3+}$ ions, forming a rich
class of quaternary halides in double-perovskite structure. We find through
first-principles calculations this class of materials have good phase stability
against decomposition and wide-range tunable optoelectronic properties. With
photovoltaic-functionality-directed materials screening, we identify eleven
optimal materials with intrinsic thermodynamic stability, suitable band gaps,
small carrier effective masses, and low excitons binding energies as promising
candidates to replace Pb-based photovoltaic absorbers in perovskite solar
cells. The chemical trends of phase stabilities and electronic properties are
also established for this class of materials, offering useful guidance for the
development of perovskite solar cells fabricated with them." 10.1021/jacs.6b09645 2017-05-26  "['Zhao', 'Yang', 'Fu', 'Yang', 'Xu', 'Yu', 'Wei', 'Zhang']"
1705.10018 "Prediction of plastic anisotropy of textured polycrystalline sheets
  based on a new single crystal model" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In this paper, we predict the effect of texture on the anisotropy in plastic
properties of polycrystalline metallic sheets. The constituent grain behavior
is modelled using the new single crystal yield criterion developed by Cazacu,
Revil, and Chandola (2017). For ideal texture components, the yield stress and
plastic strain ratios can be obtained analytically. For the case of strongly
textured sheets containing a spread about the ideal texture components, the
polycrystalline response is obtained numerically on the basis of the same
single-crystal criterion. It is shown that for textures with misorientation
scatter width up to 25 degrees, the numerical predictions are very close to
those obtained analytically for an ideal texture. Furthermore, irrespective of
the number of grains in the sample, Lankford coefficients have finite values
for all loading orientations. Illustrative examples for sheets with textures
containing a combination of few ideal texture components are also presented.
The simulations of the predicted polycrystalline behavior based on the new
description of the plastic behavior of the constituent grains capture the
influence of individual texture components on the overall degree of anisotropy.
The polycrystalline simulation results are also compared to analytical
estimates obtained using the closed-form formulas for the ideal components
present in the texture in conjunction with a simple law of mixtures. The
analytical estimates show the same trends as the simulation results. Therefore,
the trends in plastic anisotropy of the macroscopic properties can be
adequately estimated analytically."  2017-05-14  "['Chandola', 'Cazacu', 'Revil-Baudard']"
1705.10025 "Rectifying full-counting statistics in a spin Seebeck engine" cond-mat.mes-hall "We investigate the rectification and negative differential effects of
full-counting statistics of conjugate thermal spin transport in a spin Seebeck
engine. The engine is made by an electron/magnon interface diode driven by a
temperature bias, of which the scaled cumulant generating function is
formulated in the framework of nonequilibrium Green's function. The strongly
fluctuating interfacial electron density of states induced by quantum dot is
responsible for these intriguing properties. This work is relevant for
designing efficient spin caloritronic engine and can broaden our view in
nonequilibrium thermodynamics and the nonlinear phenomenon in quantum transport
system."  2017-05-28  "['Tang', 'Chen', 'Ren', 'Wang']"
1705.10040 "Probing the interplay between surface and bulk states in the topological
  Kondo insulator SmB$_6$ through conductance fluctuation spectroscopy" cond-mat.mes-hall "We present results of resistance fluctuation spectroscopy on single crystals
of the predicted Kondo topological insulator material SmB$_6$. Our measurements
show that at low temperatures, transport in this system takes place only
through surface states. The measured noise in this temperature range arises due
to Universal Conductance Fluctuations whose statistics was found to be
consistent with theoretical predictions for that of two-dimensional systems in
the Symplectic symmetry class. At higher temperatures, we find signatures of
glassy dynamics and establish that the measured noise is caused by mobility
fluctuations in the bulk. We find that, unlike the topological insulators of
the dichalcogenide family, the noise in surface and bulk conduction channels in
SmB$_6$ are completely uncorrelated. Our measurements establish that at
sufficiently low temperatures, the bulk has no discernible contribution to
electrical transport in SmB$_6$ making it an ideal platform for probing the
physics of topological surface states." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.205403 2017-05-29  "['Biswas', 'Hatnean', 'Balakrishnan', 'Bid']"
1705.10047 "Chemical potential of quasi-equilibrium magnon gas driven by pure spin
  current" cond-mat.mes-hall "We show experimentally that the spin current generated by the spin Hall
effect drives the magnon gas in a ferromagnet into a quasi-equilibrium state
that can be described by the Bose-Einstein statistics. The magnon population
function is characterized either by an increased effective chemical potential
or by a reduced effective temperature, depending on the spin current
polarization. In the former case, the chemical potential can closely approach,
at large driving currents, the lowest-energy magnon state, indicating the
possibility of spin current-driven Bose-Einstein condensation."  2017-05-29  "['Demidov', 'Urazhdin', 'Divinskiy', 'Bessonov', 'Rinkevich', 'Ustinov', 'Demokritov']"
1705.10057 "Critical Slowing Down of Quadrupole and Hexadecapole Orderings in Iron
  Pnictide Superconductor" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.supr-con" "Ultrasonic measurements have been carried out to investigate the critical
dynamics of structural and superconducting transitions due to degenerate
orbital bands in iron pnictide compounds with the formula
Ba(Fe$_{1-x}$Co$_x$)$_2$As$_2$. The attenuation coefficient
$\alpha_{\mathrm{L}[110]}$ of the longitudinal ultrasonic wave for
$(C_{11}+C_{12}+2C_{66})/2$ for $x = 0.036$ reveals the critical slowing down
of the relaxation time around the structural transition at $T_\mathrm{s} = 65$
K, which is caused by ferro-type ordering of the quadrupole $O_{x'^2-y'^2}$
coupled to the strain $\varepsilon_{xy}$. The attenuation coefficient
$\alpha_{66}$ of the transverse ultrasonic wave for $C_{66}$ for $x = 0.071$
also exhibits the critical slowing down around the superconducting transition
at $T_\mathrm{SC} = 23$ K, which is caused by ferro-type ordering of the
hexadecapole $H_z^\alpha \bigl( \boldsymbol{r}_i, \boldsymbol{r}_j \bigr) =
O_{x'y'}\bigl( \boldsymbol{r}_i \bigr) O_{x'^2 - y'^2}\bigl( \boldsymbol{r}_j
\bigr)
  + O_{x'^2 - y'^2}\bigl( \boldsymbol{r}_i \bigr) O_{x'y'}\bigl(
\boldsymbol{r}_j \bigr)$ of the bound two-electron state coupled to the
rotation $\omega_{xy}$. It is proposed that the hexadecapole ordering
associated with the superconductivity brings about spontaneous rotation of the
macroscopic superconducting state with respect to the host tetragonal lattice." 10.7566/JPSJ.86.064706 2017-05-29  "['Kurihara', 'Mitsumoto', 'Akatsu', 'Nemoto', 'Goto', 'Kobayashi', 'Sato']"
1705.10062 "Distinct domain-wall motion between creep and flow regimes near the
  angular momentum compensation temperature of ferrimagnet" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We investigate a magnetic domain-wall (DW) motion in two dynamic regimes,
creep and flow regimes, near the angular momentum compensation temperature
(T_A) of ferrimagnet. In the flow regime, the DW speed shows sharp increase at
T_A due to the emergence of antiferromagnetic DW dynamics. In the creep regime,
however, the DW speed exhibits a monotonic increase with increasing the
temperature. This result suggests that, in the creep regime, the thermal
activation process governs the DW dynamics even near T_A. Our result
unambiguously shows the distinct behavior of ferrimagnetic DW motion depending
on the dynamic regime, which is important for emerging ferrimagnet-based
spintronic applications."  2017-05-29  "['Hirata', 'Kim', 'Okuno', 'Ham', 'Kim', 'Moriyama', 'Tsukamoto', 'Kim', 'Ono']"
1705.10068 "Static and dynamic properties of heavily doped quantum vortices" cond-mat.quant-gas "Quantum vortices in superfluids may capture matter and deposit it inside
their core. By doping vortices with foreign particles one can effectively
visualize them and study experimentally. To acquire a better understanding of
the interaction of quantum vortices with matter and clarify the details of
recent experiments properties of doped vortices are investigated here
theoretically in the regimes where the doping mass becomes close to the total
mass of superfluid particles forming a vortex. Such formations are dynamically
stable and, possessing both vorticity and enhanced inertia, demonstrate
properties which are different from the pure vortex case. The goal of this
paper is to define and investigate the universal aspects of a heavily doped
vortex behavior which can be realized in different types of quantum mixtures.
The proposed 3D model is based on a system of coupled semiclassical matter wave
equations which are solved numerically in a wide range of physical parameters.
The size, geometry, solubility and binding energy of dopants in different
regimes are discussed. A coupled motion of a vortex-dopant complex and
decoupling conditions are studied. The reconnection of vortices, taken as an
example of a fundamental process responsible for the evolution of a quantum
turbulent state, is modeled to illustrate the difference between the light and
heavy doping cases."  2017-05-29  ['Pshenichnyuk']
1705.10072 "Pair interactions of heavy vortices in quantum fluids" cond-mat.quant-gas "The dynamics of quantum vortex pairs carrying heavy doping matter trapped
inside their cores is studied. The nonlinear classical matter field formalism
is used to build a universal mathematical model of a heavy vortex applicable to
different types of quantum mixtures. It is shown how the usual vortex dynamics
typical for undoped pairs qualitatively changes when heavy dopants are used:
heavy vortices with opposite topological charges (chiralities) attract each
other, while vortices with the same charge are repelled. The force responsible
for such behavior appears as a result of superposition of vortices velocity
fields in the presence of doping substance and can be considered as a special
realization of the Magnus effect. The force is evaluated quantitatively and its
inverse proportionality to the distance is demonstrated. The mechanism
described in this paper gives an example of how a light nonlinear classical
field may realize repulsive and attractive interactions between embedded heavy
impurities."  2017-05-29  ['Pshenichnyuk']
1705.10098 "Light-mediated collective atomic motion in a hybrid atom-optomechanical
  system" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall physics.atom-ph" "We observe effects of collective atomic motion in a one-dimensional optical
lattice coupled to an optomechanical system. In this hybrid atom-optomechanical
system, the lattice light generates a coupling between the lattice atoms as
well as between atoms and a micromechanical membrane oscillator. For large atom
numbers we observe an instability in the coupled system, resulting in
large-amplitude atom-membrane oscillations. We show that this behavior can be
explained by light-mediated collective atomic motion in the lattice, which
arises for large atom number, small atom-light detuning and asymmetric pumping
of the lattice, in agreement with previous theoretical work. The model connects
the optomechanical instability to a phase delay in the global atomic
back-action onto the lattice light, which we observe in a direct measurement."  2017-05-29  "['Vochezer', 'Kampschulte', 'Hammerer', 'Treutlein']"
1705.10109 "Force networks and jamming in shear deformed sphere packings" cond-mat.soft "The formation of self-organised structures that resist shear deformation have
been discussed in the context of shear jamming and thickening[1-3], with
frictional forces playing a key role. However, shear induces geometric features
necessary for jamming even in frictionless packings[4]. We analyse conditions
for jamming in such assemblies by solving force and torque balance conditions
for their contact geometry. We demonstrate, and validate with frictional
simulations, that the isostatic condition for mean contact number Z = D + 1
(for spatial dimension D = 2, 3) holds at jamming for both finite and infinite
friction, above the random loose packing density. We show that the shear
jamming threshold satisfies the marginal stability condition recently proposed
for jamming in frictionless systems[5]. We perform rigidity percolation
analysis[6,7] for D = 2 and find that rigidity percolation precedes shear
jamming, which however coincides with the percolation of over-constrained
regions, leading to the identification of an intermediate phase analogous to
that observed in covalent glasses[8]."  2017-05-29  "['Vinutha', 'Sastry']"
1705.10129 "High-sensitivity plasmonic refractive index sensing using graphene" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "We theoretically demonstrate a high-sensitivity, graphene-plasmon based
refractive index sensor working in the mid-infrared at room temperature. The
bulk figure of merit of our sensor reaches values above $10$, but the key
aspect of our proposed plasmonic sensor is its surface sensitivity which we
examine in detail. We have used realistic values regarding doping level and
electron relaxation time, which is the limiting factor for the sensor
performance. Our results show quantitatively the high performance of
graphene-plasmon based refractive index sensors working in the mid-infrared." 10.1088/2053-1583/aa70ff 2017-05-29  "['Wenger', 'Viola', 'Kinaret', 'Fogelström', 'Tassin']"
1705.10136 "Dynamic pathway of the photoinduced phase transition of TbMnO$_3$" cond-mat.str-el "We investigate the demagnetization dynamics of the cycloidal and sinusoidal
phases of multiferroic TbMnO$_3$ by means of time-resolved resonant soft x-ray
diffraction following excitation by an optical pump. Using orthogonal linear
x-ray polarizations, we suceeded in disentangling the response of the
multiferroic cycloidal spin order from the sinusoidal antiferromagnetic order
in the time domain. This enables us to identify the transient magnetic phase
created by intense photoexcitation of the electrons and subsequent heating of
the spin system on a picosecond timescale. The transient phase is shown to be a
spin density wave, as in the adiabatic case, which nevertheless retains the
wave vector of the cycloidal long range order. Two different pump photon
energies, 1.55 eV and 3.1 eV, lead to population of the conduction band
predominantly via intersite $d$-$d$ transitions or intrasite $p$-$d$
transitions, respectively. We find that the nature of the optical excitation
does not play an important role in determining the dynamics of magnetic order
melting. Further, we observe that the orbital reconstruction, which is induced
by the spin ordering, disappears on a timescale comparable to that of the
cycloidal order, attesting to a direct coupling between magnetic and orbital
orders. Our observations are discussed in the context of recent theoretical
models of demagnetization dynamics in strongly correlated systems, revealing
the potential of this type of measurement as a benchmark for such complex
theoretical studies."  2017-05-29  "['Bothschafter', 'Abreu', 'Rettig', 'Kubacka', 'Parchenko', 'Porer', 'Dornes', 'Windsor', 'Ramakrishnan', 'Alberca', 'Manz', 'Saari', 'Koohpayeh', 'Fiebig', 'Forrest', 'Werner', 'Dhesi', 'Johnson', 'Staub']"
1705.10156 "Exploring the jamming transition over a wide range of critical densities" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.soft" "We numerically study the jamming transition of polydisperse spheres in three
dimensions. We use an efficient thermalisation algorithm for the equilibrium
hard sphere fluid and generate amorphous jammed packings over a range of
critical jamming densities that is about three times broader than in previous
studies. This allows us to reexamine a wide range of structural properties
characterizing the jamming transition. Both isostaticity and the critical
behavior of the pair correlation function hold over the entire range of
critical densities. At intermediate length scales, we find a weak, smooth
increase of bond orientational order. By contrast, distorted icosahedral
structures grow rapidly with increasing the volume fraction in both fluid and
jammed states. Surprisingly, at large scale we observe that denser jammed
states show stronger deviations from hyperuniformity, suggesting that the
enhanced amorphous ordering inherited from the equilibrium fluid competes with,
rather than enhances, hyperuniformity. Finally, finite size fluctuations of the
critical jamming density are considerably suppressed in the denser jammed
states, indicating an important change in the topography of the potential
energy landscape. By considerably stretching the amplitude of the critical
""J-line"", our work disentangles physical properties at the contact scale that
are associated with jamming criticality, from those occurring at larger length
scales, which have a different nature."  2017-05-29  "['Ozawa', 'Berthier', 'Coslovich']"
1705.10169 "Time-reversal invariant topological superfluids in Bose-Fermi mixtures" cond-mat.quant-gas "A mixed dimensional system of fermions in two layers immersed in a
Bose-Einstein condensate (BEC) is shown to be a promising setup to realise
topological superfluids with time-reversal symmetry (TRS). The induced
interaction between the fermions mediated by the BEC gives rise to a
competition between $p$-wave pairing within each layer and $s$-wave pairing
between the layers. When the layers are far apart, intra-layer pairing
dominates and the system forms a topological superfluid either with or without
TRS. With decreasing layer separation or increasing BEC coherence length,
inter-layer pairing sets in. We show that this leads either to a second order
transition breaking TRS where the edge modes gradually become gapped, or to a
first order transition to a topologically trivial $s$-wave superfluid. Our
results provide a realistic roadmap for experimentally realising a topological
superfluid with TRS for the first time."  2017-05-29  "['Midtgaard', 'Wu', 'Bruun']"
1705.10192 "Monte Carlo study of an anisotropic Ising multilayer with
  antiferromagnetic interlayer couplings" cond-mat.stat-mech "We present a Monte Carlo study of the magnetic properties of an Ising
multilayer ferrimagnet. The system consists of two kinds of non-equivalent
planes, one of which is site-diluted. All intralayer couplings are
ferromagnetic. The different kinds of planes are stacked alternately and the
interlayer couplings are antiferromagnetic. We perform the simulations using
the Wolff algorithm and employ multiple histogram reweighting and finite-size
scaling methods to analyze the data with special emphasis on the study of
compensation phenomena. Compensation and critical temperatures of the system
are obtained as functions of the Hamiltonian parameters and we present a
detailed discussion about the contribution of each parameter to the presence or
absence of the compensation effect. A comparison is presented between our
results and those reported in the literature for the same model using the pair
approximation. We also compare our results with those obtained through both the
pair approximation and Monte Carlo simulations for the bilayer system."  2017-05-25  "['Diaz', 'Branco']"
1705.10199 "Absence of Landau damping in driven three-component Bose-Einstein
  condensate in optical lattices" cond-mat.quant-gas "We explore the quantum many-body physics of a three-component Bose-Einstein
condensate (BEC) in an optical lattices driven by laser fields in $V$ and
$\Lambda$ configurations. We obtain exact analytical expressions for the energy
spectrum and amplitudes of elementary excitations, and discover symmetries
among them. We demonstrate that the applied laser fields induce a gap in the
otherwise gapless Bogoliubov spectrum. We find that Landau damping of the
collective modes above the energy of the gap is carried by laser-induced roton
modes and is considerably suppressed compared to the phonon-mediated damping
endemic to undriven scalar BECs."  2017-05-26 2017-05-30 "['Shchedrin', 'Jaschke', 'Carr']"
1705.10215 "Anomalous Thermal Expansion, Negative Linear Compressibility and
  High-Pressure Phase Transition in ZnAu2(CN)4: Neutron Inelastic Scattering
  and Lattice Dynamics Studies" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We present temperature dependent inelastic neutron scattering measurments,
accompanied byab-initio calculations of phonon spectra and elastic properties
as a function of pressure to understand anharmonicity of phonons and to study
the mechanism of negative thermal expansion and negative linear compressibility
behaviour of ZnAu2(CN)4. The mechanism is identified in terms of specific
anharmonic modes that involve bending of the Zn(CN)4-Au- Zn(CN)4 linkage. The
high-pressure phase transition at about 2 GPa is also investigated and found to
be related to softening of a phonon mode at the L-point at the Brillouin zone
boundary and its coupling with a zone-centre phonon and an M-point phonon in
the ambient pressure phase. Although the phase transition is primarily driven
by a L-point soft phonon mode, which usually leads to a second order transition
with a 2 x 2 x 2 supercell, in the present case the structure is close to an
elastic instability that leads to a weakly first order transition."  2017-05-29  "['Gupta', 'Singh', 'Mittal', 'Zbiri', 'Cairns', 'Goodwin', 'Schober', 'Chaplot']"
1705.10221 "Hot-electron relaxation in dense `two-temperature' hydrogen" "cond-mat.stat-mech physics.plasm-ph" "Recent theories of hot-electron relaxation in dense hydrogen or deuterium are
examined in the light of recent molecular-dynamics simulations as well as
various theoretical developments within the two-temperature model. The
theoretical work since 1998 have led to the formulation of the $f$-sum version
of the Fermi Golden rule formula as the most convenient method for the
calculation of the rate of cooling of hot electrons where energy is transferred
to cold ions. The attempt to include relaxation via the ion-acoustic modes of
the two coupled subsystems, i.e., electrons and ions has led to a coupled-mode
formulation which has now been established by a variety of formal methods.
However, various simplified calculational models of the system with
coupled-modes, as well as sophisticated molecular dynamics simulations seem to
disagree. It is expected that coupled-mode calculations which use the simple
Coulomb potential $V_{ei}(r)=-|e|Z/r$ for the electron-ion interaction within
RPA will greatly over-estimate the coupled-mode contribution. A weak
pseudopotential $U_{ei}(r)$ would probably bring the estimated coupled-mode
contribution to agree with that obtained by simulations. It is suggested that
the available `reduced models' have been constructed without much attention to
the satisfaction of important sum rules, Kramers-Kr\""onig relations etc. We
also deal with the question of how strongly coupled ion-ion systems can be
addressed by an extension of the second-order linear response theory which is
the basis of current formulations of energy relaxation in warm-dense matter
systems. These are of interest in a variety of fields including hot-electron
semi-conductor devices, inertial-fusion studies of hot compressed hydrogen, as
well as in astrophysical applications."  2017-05-29 2017-06-05 ['Dharma-wardana']
1705.10225 "Bayesian stochastic blockmodeling" "stat.ML cond-mat.stat-mech physics.data-an" "This chapter provides a self-contained introduction to the use of Bayesian
inference to extract large-scale modular structures from network data, based on
the stochastic block model (SBM), as well as its degree-corrected and
overlapping generalizations. We focus on nonparametric formulations that allow
their inference in a manner that prevents overfitting, and enables model
selection. We discuss aspects on the choice of priors, in particular how to
avoid underfitting via increased Bayesian hierarchies, and we contrast the task
of sampling network partitions from the posterior distribution with finding the
single point estimate that maximizes it, while describing efficient algorithms
to perform either one. We also show how inferring the SBM can be used to
predict missing and spurious links, and shed light on the fundamental
limitations of the detectability of modular structures in networks."  2017-05-29  ['Peixoto']
1705.10235 "High pressure Raman study of the quantum magnet PHCC" cond-mat.str-el "Magnetic and lattice excitations in the quantum antiferromagnet
(C$_4$H$_{12}$N$_2$)Cu$_2$Cl$_6$ (a.k.a PHCC) are studied across two
pressure-induced phase transition at $P_c=4.3~\mathrm{kbar}$ and
$P_1=13.4~\mathrm{kbar}$ using Raman spectroscopy. The purely magnetic nature
of both transitions is confirmed. Two-magnon scattering is detected. It shows a
pronounced pressure dependence and undergoes substantial changes at both
transitions. The results are in clear contradiction with previous neutron
studies, which detected only minor changes of the magnon spectrum at $P_1$. A
number of phonons show anomalous frequency shifts at low temperatures. This
effect is pressure dependent and for two of the observed phonons dramatically
reverses sign at $P_1$. The anomalous behavior is attributed to strong
magneto-elastic coupling in PHCC."  2017-05-29  "['Bettler', 'Simutis', 'Perren', 'Gvasaliya', 'Zheludev']"
1705.10241 "Dynamic scaling analysis of the long-range RKKY Ising spin glass
  Dy$_{x}$Y$_{1-x}$Ru$_{2}$Si$_{2}$" cond-mat.dis-nn "Dynamic scaling analyses of linear and nonlinear ac susceptibilities in a
model magnet of the long-rang RKKY Ising spin glass (SG)
Dy$_{x}$Y$_{1-x}$Ru$_{2}$Si$_{2}$ were examined. The obtained set of the
critical exponents, $\gamma$ $\sim$ 1, $\beta$ $\sim$ 1, $\delta$ $\sim$ 2, and
$z\nu$ $\sim$ 3.4, indicates the SG phase transition belongs to a different
universality class from either the canonical (Heisenberg) or the short-range
Ising SGs. The analyses also reveal a finite-temperature SG transition with the
same critical exponents under a magnetic field and the phase transition line
$T_{\mbox{g}}(H)$ described by $T_{\mbox{g}}(H)$ $=$
$T_{\mbox{g}}(0)(1-AH^{2/\phi})$ with $\phi$ $\sim$ 2. The crossover exponent
$\phi$ obeys the scaling relation $\phi$ $=$ $\gamma + \beta$ within the margin
of errors. These results strongly suggest the spontaneous
replica-symmetry-breaking (RSB) with a {\it non- or marginal-mean-field
universality class} in the long-range RKKY Ising SG."  2017-05-29  "['Tabata', 'Waki', 'Nakamura']"
1705.10261 "Sparse Maximum-Entropy Random Graphs with a Given Power-Law Degree
  Distribution" "math.PR cond-mat.stat-mech cs.SI math.ST physics.soc-ph stat.TH" "Even though power-law or close-to-power-law degree distributions are
ubiquitously observed in a great variety of large real networks, the
mathematically satisfactory treatment of random power-law graphs satisfying
basic statistical requirements of realism is still lacking. These requirements
are: sparsity, exchangeability, projectivity, and unbiasedness. The last
requirement states that entropy of the graph ensemble must be maximized under
the degree distribution constraints. Here we prove that the hypersoft
configuration model (HSCM), belonging to the class of random graphs with latent
hyperparameters, also known as inhomogeneous random graphs or $W$-random
graphs, satisfies all these requirements. The proof relies on generalized
graphons, and on mapping the problem of maximization of the normalized Gibbs
entropy of a random graph ensemble, to the graphon entropy maximization
problem, showing that the two entropies converge to each other in the
large-graph limit."  2017-05-29  "['van der Hoorn', 'Lippner', 'Krioukov']"
1705.10267 "Optospintronics in graphene via proximity coupling" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.app-ph" "The observation of micron size spin relaxation makes graphene a promising
material for applications in spintronics requiring long distance spin
communication. However, spin dependent scatterings at the contact/graphene
interfaces affect the spin injection efficiencies and hence prevent the
material from achieving its full potential. While this major issue could be
eliminated by nondestructive direct optical spin injection schemes, graphenes
intrinsically low spin orbit coupling strength and optical absorption place an
obstacle in their realization. We overcome this challenge by creating sharp
artificial interfaces between graphene and WSe2 monolayers. Application of a
circularly polarized light activates the spin polarized charge carriers in the
WSe2 layer due to its spin coupled valley selective absorption. These carriers
diffuse into the superjacent graphene layer, transport over a 3.5 um distance,
and are finally detected electrically using BN/Co contacts in a non local
geometry. Polarization dependent measurements confirm the spin origin of the
non local signal."  2017-05-29  "['Avsar', 'Unuchek', 'Liu', 'Sanchez', 'Watanabe', 'Taniguchi', 'Ozyilmaz', 'Kis']"
1705.10278 "Materials processing with intense pulsed ion beams and masked targets" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Intense, pulsed ion beams locally heat materials and deliver dense electronic
excitations that can induce materials modifications and phase transitions.
Materials properties can potentially be stabilized by rapid quenching. Pulsed
ion beams with (sub-) ns pulse lengths have recently become available for
materials processing. Here, we optimize mask geometries for local modification
of materials by intense ion pulses. The goal is to rapidly excite targets
volumetrically to the point where a phase transition or local lattice
reconstruction is induced followed by rapid cooling that stabilizes desired
materials properties fast enough before the target is altered or damaged by e.
g. hydrodynamic expansion. We performed HYDRA simulations that calculate peak
temperatures for a series of excitation conditions and cooling rates of silicon
targets with micro-structured masks and compare these to a simple analytical
model. The model gives scaling laws that can guide the design of targets over a
wide range of pulsed ion beam parameters."  2017-05-25  "['Barnard', 'Schenkel']"
1705.10286 "Quantitative Connection Between Ensemble Thermodynamics and
  Single-Molecule Kinetics: A Case Study Using Cryogenic Electron Microscopy
  and Single-Molecule Fluorescence Resonance Energy Transfer Investigations of
  the Ribosome" "physics.bio-ph cond-mat.stat-mech physics.chem-ph q-bio.SC" "At equilibrium, thermodynamic and kinetic information can be extracted from
biomolecular energy landscapes by many techniques. However, while static,
ensemble techniques yield thermodynamic data, often only dynamic,
single-molecule techniques can yield the kinetic data that describes
transition-state energy barriers. Here we present a generalized framework based
upon dwell-time distributions that can be used to connect such static, ensemble
techniques with dynamic, single-molecule techniques, and thus characterize
energy landscapes to greater resolutions. We demonstrate the utility of this
framework by applying it to cryogenic electron microscopy (cryo-EM) and
single-molecule fluorescence resonance energy transfer (smFRET) studies of the
bacterial ribosomal pre-translocation complex. Among other benefits,
application of this framework to these data explains why two transient,
intermediate conformations of the pre-translocation complex, which are observed
in a cryo-EM study, may not be observed in several smFRET studies." 10.1021/jp5128805 2017-05-29  "['Kinz-Thompson', 'Sharma', 'Frank', 'Gonzalez,', 'Chowdhury']"
1705.10289 "Localisation of soft modes at the depinning transition" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech" "We characterise the soft modes of the dynamical matrix at the depinning
transition, and compare it with the properties of the Anderson model (and
long--range generalisations). The density of states at the edge of the spectrum
displays a universal linear tail, different from the Lifshitz tails. The
eigenvectors are instead very similar in the two matrix ensembles. We focus on
the ground state, which represents the epicentre of avalanche instabilities. We
expect it to be localised in all finite dimensions, and make a clear connection
between its localisation length and the Larkin length of the depinning model.
Finally, in the fully connected model, we show that the weak--strong pinning
transition coincides with a peculiar localisation transition of the ground
state."  2017-05-29  "['Cao', 'Bouzat', 'Kolton', 'Rosso']"
1705.10335 "Dynamic d-symmetry Bose condensate of a planar-large-bipolaron-liquid in
  cuprate superconductors" cond-mat.supr-con "Planar large-bipolarons can form if the ratio of the surrounding mediums
static to high-frequency dielectric constants is especially large. A
large-bipolaron in p-doped La2CuO4 is modeled as two electrons being removed
from the out-of-plane orbitals of four oxygen ions circumscribed by four copper
ions of a CuO2 layer. These oxygen dianions relax inwardly as they donate
electrons to the surrounding outwardly relaxing copper cations. This charge
transfer generates the strong in-plane electron-lattice interaction needed to
stabilize a large-bipolaron with respect to decomposing into polarons. The
lowest-energy radial in-plane optic vibration of a large-bipolarons four core
oxygen ions with their associated electronic charges has d-symmetry. Electronic
relaxation in response to multiple large-bipolarons atomic vibrations lowers
their frequencies to generate a phonon-mediated attraction among them which
fosters their condensation into a liquid. This liquid features distinctive
transport and optical properties. A large-bipolaron liquids superconductivity
can result when it undergoes a Bose condensation yielding macroscopic
occupation of its ground-state. The synchronized vibrations of large-bipolarons
core-oxygen ions with their electronic charges generate this Bose condensates
dynamic global d-symmetry."  2017-05-29  ['Emin']
1705.10343 "Quantum Confinement Induced Shift in Energy Band Edges and Band Gap of
  Spherical Quantum Dot" cond-mat.mes-hall "We have proposed and validated an ansatz as effective potential for confining
electron/hole within spherical quantum dot in order to understand quantum
confinement and its consequences associated with energy states and band gap of
Spherical Quantum Dot. Within effective mass approximation formalism,
considering an ansatz incorporating a conjoined harmonic oscillator and coulomb
interaction as the effective potential for confining an electron or a hole
within a spherical quantum dot and by employing appropriate boundary conditions
we have calculated the shifts in energy of minimum of conduction band(CBM) and
maximum of valence band(VBM) with respect to size of spherical quantum dot. We
have also determined the quantum confinement induced shift in band gap energy
of spherical quantum dot. In order to verify our theoretical predictions as
well as to validate our ansatz, we have performed phenomenological analysis in
comparison with available experimental results for quantum dots made of CdSe
and observe a very good agreement in this regard. Our experimentally consistent
theoretical results also help in mapping the probability density of electron
and hole inside spherical quantum dot. The consistency of our results with
available experimental data signifies the capability as well as applicability
of the ansatz for the effective confining potential to have reasonable
information in the study of real nano-structured spherical systems."  2017-05-29 2017-06-02 "['Borah', 'Siboh', 'Kalita', 'Sarma', 'Nath']"
1705.10344 "Probing decoherence in plasmonic waveguides in the quantum regime" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "We experimentally investigate the decoherence of single surface plasmon
polaritons in metal stripe waveguides. In our study we use a Mach-Zehnder
configuration previously considered for measuring decoherence in atomic,
electronic and photonic systems. By placing waveguides of different length in
one arm we are able to measure the amplitude damping time T_1 = 1.90 +/- 0.01 x
10^-14 s, pure phase damping time T_2^* = 11.19 +/- 4.89 x 10^-14 s and total
phase damping time T_2 = 2.83 +/- 0.32 x 10^-14 s. We find that decoherence is
mainly due to amplitude damping and thus loss arising from inelastic electron
and photon scattering plays the most important role in the decoherence of
plasmonic waveguides in the quantum regime. However, pure phase damping is not
completely negligible. The results will be useful in the design of plasmonic
waveguide systems for carrying out phase-sensitive quantum applications, such
as quantum sensing. The probing techniques developed may also be applied to
other plasmonic nanostructures, such as those used as nanoantennas, as unit
cells in metamaterials and as nanotraps for cold atoms."  2017-05-29  "['Dlamini', 'Francis', 'Zhang', 'Ozdemir', 'Chormaic', 'Petruccione', 'Tame']"
1705.10350 "Microscopic origin of the Drude-Smith model" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "The Drude-Smith model has been used extensively in fitting the THz
conductivities of nanomaterials with carrier confinement on the mesoscopic
scale. Here, we show that the conventional 'backscattering' explanation for the
suppression of low-frequency conductivities in the Drude-Smith model is not
consistent with a confined Drude gas of classical non-interacting electrons and
we derive a modified Drude-Smith conductivity formula based on a diffusive
restoring current. We perform Monte Carlo simulations of a model system and
show that the modified Drude-Smith model reproduces the extracted
conductivities without free parameters. This alternate route to the Drude-Smith
model provides the popular formula with a more solid physical foundation and
well-defined fit parameters."  2017-05-29  "['Cocker', 'Baillie', 'Buruma', 'Titova', 'Sydora', 'Marsiglio', 'Hegmann']"
1705.10360 "Raman and fluorescence contributions to resonant inelastic soft x-ray
  scattering on LaAlO$_3$/SrTiO$_3$ heterostructures" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We present a detailed study of the Ti 3$d$ carriers at the interface of
LaAlO$_3$/SrTiO$_3$ heterostructures by high-resolution resonant inelastic soft
x-ray scattering (RIXS), with special focus on the roles of overlayer thickness
and oxygen vacancies. Our measurements show the existence of interfacial Ti
3$d$ electrons already below the critical thickness for conductivity and an
increase of the total interface charge up to a LaAlO$_3$ overlayer thickness of
6 unit cells before it levels out. By comparing stoichiometric and oxygen
deficient samples we observe strong Ti 3$d$ charge carrier doping by oxygen
vacancies. The RIXS data combined with photoelectron spectroscopy and transport
measurements indicate the simultaneous presence of localized and itinerant
charge carriers. However, it is demonstrated that the relative amount of
localized and itinerant Ti $3d$ electrons in the ground state cannot be deduced
from the relative intensities of the Raman and fluorescence peaks in excitation
energy dependent RIXS measurements, in contrast to previous interpretations.
Rather, we attribute the observation of either the Raman or the fluorescence
signal to the spatial extension of the intermediate state reached in the RIXS
excitation process."  2017-05-29  "['Pfaff', 'Fujiwara', 'Berner', 'Yamasaki', 'Niwa', 'Kiuchi', 'Gloskovskii', 'Drube', 'Kirilmaz', 'Sekiyama', 'Miyawaki', 'Harada', 'Suga', 'Sing', 'Claessen']"
1705.10364 "Dynamics of entanglement and transport in 1D systems with quenched
  randomness" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "Quenched randomness can have a dramatic effect on the dynamics of isolated 1D
quantum many-body systems, even for systems that thermalize. This is because
transport, entanglement, and operator spreading can be hindered by `Griffiths'
rare regions which locally resemble the many-body-localized phase and thus act
as weak links. We propose coarse-grained models for entanglement growth and for
the spreading of quantum operators in the presence of such weak links. We also
examine entanglement growth across a single weak link numerically. We show that
these weak links have a stronger effect on entanglement growth than previously
assumed: entanglement growth is sub-ballistic whenever such weak links have a
power-law probability distribution at low couplings, i.e. throughout the entire
thermal Griffiths phase. We argue that the probability distribution of the
entanglement entropy across a cut can be understood from a simple picture in
terms of a classical surface growth model. Surprisingly, the four length scales
associated with (i) production of entanglement, (ii) spreading of conserved
quantities, (iii) spreading of operators, and (iv) the width of the `front' of
a spreading operator, are characterized by dynamical exponents that in general
are all distinct. Our numerical analysis of entanglement growth between weakly
coupled systems may be of independent interest."  2017-05-29  "['Nahum', 'Ruhman', 'Huse']"
1705.10377 "Part of a collection of reviews on antiferromagnetic spintronics.
  Antiferromagnetic dynamics, spin-texures, and nanostructures" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.other" "Antiferromagnets as active elements of spintronics can be faster than their
ferromagnetic counterparts and more robust to magnetic noise. Owing to the
strongly exchange-coupled magnetic sublattice structure, antiferromagnetic
order parameter dynamics are qualitatively different and thus capable of
engendering novel device functionalities. In this review, we discuss
antiferromagnetic textures -- nanoparticles, domain walls, and skyrmions, --
under the action of different spin torques. We contrast the antiferromagnetic
and ferromagnetic dynamics, with a focus on the features that can be relevant
for applications."  2017-05-29  "['Gomonay', 'Baltz', 'Brataas', 'Tserkovnyak']"
1705.10390 "Spin-charge split pairing in underdoped cuprate superconductors: support
  from low-$T$ specific heat" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.stat-mech" "We calculate the specific heat of a weakly interacting dilute system of
bosons on a lattice and show that it is consistent with the measured electronic
specific heat in the superconducting state of underdoped cuprates with boson
concentration $\rho \sim x/2$, where $x$ is the hole (dopant) concentration. As
usual, the $T^3$ term is due to Goldstone phonons. The zero-point energy,
through its dependence on the condensate density $\rho_0(T)$, accounts for the
anomalous $T$-linear term. These results support the split-pairing mechanism,
in which spinons (pure spin) are paired at $T^*$ and holons (pure charge) form
real-space pairs at $T_p < T^*$, creating a gauge-coupled physical pair of
charge $+2e$ and concentration $x/2$ which Bose condenses below $T_c$,
accounting for the observed phases."  2017-05-29  "['Sarker', 'Lovorn']"
1705.10393 "de Haas-van Alphen measurement of the antiferromagnet URhIn$_5$" cond-mat.str-el "We report on the results of a de Haas-van Alphen (dHvA) measurement performed
on the recently discovered antiferromagnet URhIn$_5$ ($T_N$ = 98 K), a
5\textit{f}-analogue of the well studied heavy fermion antiferromagnet
CeRhIn$_5$. The Fermi surface is found to consist of four surfaces: a roughly
spherical pocket $\beta$, with $F_\beta \simeq 0.3$ kT; a pillow-shaped closed
surface, $\alpha$, with $F_\alpha \simeq 1.1$ kT; and two higher frequencies
$\gamma_1$ with $F_{\gamma_1} \simeq 3.2$ kT and $\gamma_2$ with $F_{\gamma_2}
\simeq 3.5$ kT that are seen only near the \textit{c}-axis, and that may arise
on cylindrical Fermi surfaces. The measured cyclotron masses range from 1.9
$m_e$ to 4.3 $m_e$. A simple LDA+SO calculation performed for the paramagnetic
ground state shows a very different Fermi surface topology, demonstrating a
need for more advanced electronic structure calculations."  2017-05-29  "['Yu', 'Bartha', 'Custers', 'Julian']"
1705.10409 "Introducing Spin in 2D Quantum Tunneling" "quant-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We study the quantum tunneling of non-relativistic electrons for two
dimensional condensed matter systems. We employ the Levy-Leblond equation
(which is the analogue of the Dirac equation for non-relativistic fermions) and
show that the spin of the particle can be incorporated in the 2D tunneling
problem. We derive the transmission and reflection coefficients of spin up and
down electrons and show that the sum of these coefficients are consistent with
the known results for gapless semiconductors."  2017-05-29  ['Ajaib']
1705.10429 "Engineering of Neutral Excitons and Exciton Complexes in Transition
  Metal Dichalcogenide Monolayers through External Dielectric Screening" cond-mat.mes-hall "In order to fully exploit the potential of transition metal dichalcogenide
monolayers (TMD-MLs), the well-controlled creation of atomically sharp lateral
heterojunctions within these materials is highly desirable. A promising
approach to create such heterojunctions is the local modulation of the
electronic structure of an intrinsic TMD-ML via dielectric screening induced by
its surrounding materials. For the realization of this non-invasive approach,
an in-depth understanding of such dielectric effects is required. We report on
the modulations of excitonic transitions in TMD-MLs through the effect of
dielectric environments including low-k and high-k dielectric materials. We
present absolute tuning ranges as large as 37 meV for the optical band gaps of
WSe 2 and MoSe 2 MLs and relative tuning ranges on the order of 30% for the
binding energies of neutral excitons in WSe 2 MLs. The findings suggest the
possibility to reduce the electronic band gap of WSe 2 MLs by 120 meV, paving
the way towards dielectrically defined lateral heterojunctions."  2017-05-29  "['Borghardt', 'Tu', 'Winkler', 'Schubert', 'Zander', 'Lesson', 'Kardynał']"
1705.10456 "Morphological characterization of Ge ion implanted SiO2 matrix using
  multifractal technique" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "200 nm thick SiO2 layers grown on Si substrates and Ge ions of 150 keV energy
were implanted into SiO2 matrix with Different fluences. The implanted samples
were annealed at 950 C for 30 minutes in Ar ambience. Topographical studies of
implanted as well as annealed samples were captured by the atomic force
microscopy (AFM). Two dimension (2D) multifractal detrended fluctuation
analysis (MFDFA) based on the partition function approach has been used to
study the surfaces of ion implanted and annealed samples. The partition
function is used to calculate generalized Hurst exponent with the segment size.
Moreover, it is seen that the generalized Hurst exponents vary nonlinearly with
the moment, thereby exhibiting the multifractal nature. The multifractality of
surface is pronounced after annealing for the surface implanted with fluence
7.5X1016 ions/cm^2."  2017-05-30  "['Yadav', 'Baranwal', 'Kumar', 'Pandey', 'Mittal']"
1705.10463 "Three-nucleon forces and superfluidity in neutron matter" "nucl-th astro-ph.HE cond-mat.supr-con" "The existence of superfluidity of the neutron component in the core of a
neutron star, associated specifically with triplet $P-$wave pairing, is
currently an open question that is central to interpretation of the observed
cooling curves and other neutron-star observables. Ab initio theoretical
calculations aimed at resolving this issue face unique challenges in the
relevant high-density domain, which reaches beyond the saturation density of
symmetrical nuclear matter. These issues include uncertainties in the
three-nucleon (3N) interaction and in the effects of strong short-range
correlations -- and more generally of in-medium modification of nucleonic
self-energies and interactions. A survey of existing solutions to the gap
equations in the triplet channel shows that the separate or combined impacts of
3N forces, coupled channels, and mass renormalization range from moderate to
strong to devastating, thus motivating a detailed analysis of the competing
effects. In the present work we track the effects of the 3N force and in-medium
modifications in the representative case of the $^3P_2$ channel, based on the
Argonne V18 two-nucleon (2N) interaction supplemented by 3N interactions of the
Urbana IX family. Sensitivity of the results to the input interaction is
clearly demonstrated, while consistency issues arise with respect to the
simultaneous treatment of 3N forces and in-medium effects. We consider this
pilot study as the first step towards a systematic and comprehensive
exploration of coupled-channel $^3P F_2$ pairing using a broad range of 2N and
3N interactions from the current generation of refined semi-phenomenological
models and models derived from chiral effective field theory."  2017-05-30  "['Papakonstantinou', 'Clark']"
1705.10487 "Superior lattice thermal conductance of single layer borophene" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "By way of the nonequilibrium Green's function simulations and first
principles calculations, we report that borophene, a single layer of boron
atoms that was fabricated recently, possesses an extraordinarily high lattice
thermal conductance in the ballistic transport regime, which even exceeds
graphene. In addition to the obvious reasons of light mass and strong bonding
of boron atoms, the superior thermal conductance is mainly rooted in its strong
structural anisotropy and unusual phonon transmission. For low-frequency
phonons, the phonon transmission within borophene is nearly isotropic, similar
to that of graphene. For high frequency phonons, however, the transmission is
one dimensional, that is, all the phonons travel in one direction, giving rise
to its ultrahigh thermal conductance. The present study suggests that borophene
is promising for applications in efficient heat dissipation and thermal
management, and also an ideal material for revealing fundamentals of
dimensionality effect on phonon transport in ballistic regime."  2017-05-30  "['Zhou', 'Cai', 'Zhang', 'Zhang']"
1705.10489 "Focused issue on antiferromagnetic spintronics: An overview (Part of a
  collection of reviews on antiferromagnetic spintronics)" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "This focused issue attempts to provide a comprehensive introduction into the
field of antiferromagnetic spintronics. Apart from the brief overview below, it
features five review articles. The intention is to cover in a coherent and
complementary way key physical aspects of the antiferromagnetic spintronics
research. These range from microelectronic memory devices and optical
manipulation and detection of antiferromagnetic spins, to the fundamentals of
antiferromagnetic dynamics in uniform or spin-textured systems, and to the
interplay of antiferromagnetic spintronics with topological phenomena. The
antiferromagnetic ordering can take a number of forms including fully
compensated collinear, non-collinear, and non-coplanar magnetic lattices,
compensated and uncompensated ferrimagnets, or metamagnetic materials hosting
an antiferromagnetic to ferromagnetic phase transition. Apart from the variety
of distinct magnetic crystal structures, the focused issue also encompasses
spintronic phenomena and devices studied in antiferromagnet/ferromagnet
heterostructures and in synthetic antiferromagnets."  2017-05-30  "['Jungwirth', 'Sinova', 'Manchon', 'Marti', 'Wunderlich', 'Felser']"
1705.10491 "Growth of bulk single-crystal MnP helimagnet and its structural and NMR
  characterization" cond-mat.supr-con "Bulk single crystals of manganese phosphide (MnP) were grown from melt at 1
GPa and 1200 C by using a cubic-anvil, high-pressure, and high-temperature
technique. The obtained black colored crystals exhibit a plate-like morphology,
with flat surfaces and maximum dimensions up to 4 x 2 x 0.5 mm3. The
orthorhombic crystal structure was confirmed by X-ray diffraction [Pnma, 62, Z
= 4, a = 5.2510(4) {\AA}, b = 3.1670(3) {\AA}, c = 5.90098 (4) {\AA} and V =
98.279(14) {\AA}3]. Temperature-dependent magnetization measurements reveal the
occurrence of two successive transitions: a paramagnetic to ferromagnetic
transition at Tc = 290.5 K and the development of a double helimagnetic order
at Ts = 44.5 K. Zero-field 31P NMR measurements in the FM and in the screw-spin
AFM state show prominent features, which are compared with previous
experimental data and theoretical calculations. The relatively large crystals
obtained here open up new possibilities for further explorations of this
interesting material."  2017-05-30  "['Zhigadlo', 'Barbero', 'Shiroka']"
1705.10504 "New Pressure-Induced Polymorphic Transitions of Anhydrous Magnesium
  Sulfate" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.chem-ph" "The effects of pressure on the crystal structure of the three known
polymorphs of magnesium sulfate have been theoretically study by means of DFT
calculations up to 45 GPa. We determined that at ambient conditions gamma MgSO4
is an unstable polymorph, which decompose into MgO and SO3, and that the
response of the other two polymorphs to hydrostatic pressure is non isotropic.
Additionally we found that at all pressures beta MgSO4 has a largest enthalpy
than alpha MgSO4. This indicates that beta MgSO4 is thermodynamically unstable
versus alpha MgSO4 and predicts the occurrence of a beta alpha phase transition
under moderate compression. Our calculations also predict the existence under
pressure of additional phase transitions to two new polymorphs of MgSO4, which
we named as delta MgSO4 and epsilon MgSO4. The alpha delta transition is
predicted to occur at 17.5 GPa, and the delta epsilon transition at 35 GPa,
pressures that nowadays can be experimentally easily achieved. All the
predicted structural transforma ions are characterized as first order
transitions. This suggests that they can be non reversible, and therefore the
new polymorphs could be recovered as metastable polymorphs at ambient
conditions. The crystal structure of the two new polymorphs is reported. In
them, the coordination number of sulfur is four as in the previously known
polymorphs, but the coordination number of magnesium is eight instead of six.
In the article we will report the axial and bond compressibility for the four
polymorphs of MgSO4. The pressure volume equation of state of each phase is
also given. The values obtained for the bulk modulus are 62 GPa, 57 GPa, 102
GPa, and 119 GPa for alpha MgSO4, beta MgSO4, delta MgSO4, and epsilon MgSO4,
respectively. Finally, the electronic band structure of these four polymorphs
of MgSO4 has been calculated by the first time." 10.1039/c7dt00539c 2017-05-30  "['Benmakhlouf', 'Errandonea', 'Bouchenafa', 'Maabed', 'Bouhemadou', 'Bentabet']"
1705.10506 "Disorder in tilted Weyl semimetals from a renormalization group
  perspective" cond-mat.mes-hall "Isolated Weyl cones in a disordered environment do not show the phenomenon of
Anderson localization due to the abscence of backscattering processes. However,
besides the conventional three dimensional diffusive metal, an additional
semimetallic phase can form. In this paper we study the effect of tilt on the
physics of disorder in isolated Weyl cones. Our main finding is that while the
semimetallic phase remains a stable phase, tilt decreases the size of the
semimetallic region. Conversely, disorder increases the effective tilt of the
quasiparticle excitations."  2017-05-30  "['Sikkenk', 'Fritz']"
1705.10507 "Structural evolution of CO2 filled pure silica LTA zeolite under
  high-pressure high-temperature conditions" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.chem-ph" "The crystal structure of CO2 filled pure SiO2 LTA zeolite has been studied at
high pressures and temperatures using synchrotron based x ray powder
diffraction. Its structure consists of 13 CO2 guest molecules, 12 of them
accommodated in the large alpha cages and 1 in the beta cages, giving a
SiO2:CO2 stoichiometric ratio smaller than 2. The structure remains stable
under pressure up to 20 GPa with a slight pressure dependent rhombohedral
distortion, indicating that pressure induced amorphization is prevented by the
insertion of guest species in this open framework. The ambient-temperature
lattice compressibility has been determined. In situ high pressure resistive
heating experiments up to 750 K allow us to estimate the thermal expansivity at
5 GPa. Our data confirm that the insertion of CO2 reverses the negative thermal
expansion of the empty zeolite structure. No evidence of any chemical reaction
was observed. The possibility of synthesizing a silicon carbonate at high
temperatures and higher pressures is discussed in terms of the evolution of C-O
and Si-O distances between molecular and framework atoms." 10.1021/acs.chemmater.7b01158 2017-05-30  "['Perez', 'Marqueno', 'MacLeod', 'Fuertes', 'Daisenberger', 'Jordan', 'Errandonea', 'Jorda', 'Rey', 'McGuire', 'Mahkluf', 'Kavner', 'Popescu']"
1705.10509 "Optical and structural study of the pressure-induced phase transition of
  CdWO$_4$" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The optical absorption of CdWO$_4$ is reported at high pressures up to 23
GPa. The onset of a phase transition was detected at 19.5 GPa, in good
agreement with a previous Raman spectroscopy study. The crystal structure of
the high-pressure phase of CdWO$_4$ was solved at 22 GPa employing
single-crystal synchrotron x-ray diffraction. The symmetry changes from space
group $P$2/$c$ in the low-pressure wolframite phase to $P2_1/c$ in the
high-pressure post-wolframite phase accompanied by a doubling of the unit-cell
volume. The octahedral oxygen coordination of the tungsten and cadmium ions is
increased to [7]-fold and [6+1]-fold, respectively, at the phase transition.
The compressibility of the low-pressure phase of CdWO$_4$ has been reevaluated
with powder x-ray diffraction up to 15 GPa finding a bulk modulus of $B_0$ =
123 GPa. The direct band gap of the low-pressure phase increases with
compression up to 16.9 GPa at 12 meV/GPa. At this point an indirect band gap
crosses the direct band gap and decreases at -2 meV/GPa up to 19.5 GPa where
the phase transition starts. At the phase transition the band gap collapses by
0.7 eV and another direct band gap decreases at -50 meV/GPa up to the maximum
measured pressure. The structural stability of the post-wolframite structure is
confirmed by \textit{ab initio} calculations finding the post-wolframite-type
phase to be more stable than the wolframite at 18 GPa. Lattice dynamic
calculations based on space group $P2_1/c$ explain well the Raman-active modes
previously measured in the high-pressure post-wolframite phase. The
pressure-induced band gap crossing in the wolframite phase as well as the
pressure dependence of the direct band gap in the high-pressure phase are
further discussed with respect to the calculations." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174105 2017-05-30  "['Ruiz-Fuertes', 'Friedrich', 'Errandonea', 'Segura', 'Morgenroth', 'Rodriguez-Hernandez', 'Muñoz', 'Meng']"
1705.10525 "Crystal structure of cobalt hydroxide carbonate Co$_2$CO$_3$(OH)$_2$:
  density functional theory and X-ray diffraction investigation" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We have investigated the structure of Co$_2$CO$_3$(OH)$_2$ using Density
Functional Theory (DFT) simulations as well as Powder X-Ray Diffraction (PXRD)
measurements on samples synthesized via deposition from aqueous solution. We
consider two possible monoclinic phases, with closely related but symmetrically
different crystal structures, based on those of the minerals malachite and
rosasite, as well as an orthorhombic phase that can be seen as a common parent
structure for the two monoclinic phases, and a triclinic phase with the
structure of the mineral kolwezite. Our DFT simulations predict that the
rosasite-like and the malachite-like phases are two different local minima of
the potential energy landscape for Co$_2$CO$_3$(OH)$_2$, and are practically
degenerate in energy, while the orthorhombic and triclinic structures are
unstable and experience barrierless transformations to the malachite phase upon
relaxation. The best fit to the PXRD data is obtained using a rosasite model
(monoclinic with space group P1121/n and cell parameters a = 3.1408(4) {\AA}, b
= 12.2914(17) {\AA}, c = 9.3311(16) {\AA}, $\gamma$ = 82.299(16)$^{\circ}$).
However, some features of the PXRD pattern are still not well accounted for by
this refinement and the residual parameters are relatively poor. We discuss the
relationship between the rosasite and malachite phases of Co$_2$CO$_3$(OH)$_2$
and show that they can be seen as polytypes. Based on the similar calculated
stability of these two polytypes, we speculate that some level of stacking
disorder could account for the poor fit of our PXRD data. The possibility that
Co$_2$CO$_3$(OH)$_2$ could crystallize, under different growth conditions, as
either rosasite or malachite, or even as a stacking-disordered phase
intermediate between the two, requires further investigation."  2017-05-30  "['González-López', 'Cockcroft', 'Fernández-González', 'Jimenez', 'Grau-Crespo']"
1705.10526 "Synthetic Antiferromagnetic Spintronics: Part of a collection of reviews
  on antiferromagnetic spintronics" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.other" "Spintronic and nanomagnetic devices often derive their functionality from
layers of different materials and the interfaces between them. This is
especially true for synthetic antiferromagnets - two or more ferromagnetic
layers that are separated by metallic spacers or tunnel barriers and which have
antiparallel magnetizations. Here, we discuss the new opportunities that arise
from synthetic antiferromagnets, as compared to crystal antiferromagnets or
ferromagnets."  2017-05-30  "['Duine', 'Lee', 'Parkin', 'Stiles']"
1705.10531 "Different phases of a system of hard rods on three dimensional cubic
  lattice" cond-mat.stat-mech "We study the different phases of a system of monodispersed hard rods of
length $k$ on a cubic lattice using an efficient cluster algorithm which can
simulate densities close to the fully-packed limit. For $k\leq 4$, the system
is disordered at all densities. For $k=5,6$, we find a single density-driven
transition from a disordered phase to high density layered-disordered phase in
which the density of rods of one orientation is strongly suppressed, breaking
the system into weakly coupled layers. Within a layer, the system is
disordered. For $k \geq 7$, three density driven transitions are observed
numerically: isotropic to nematic to layered-nematic to layered-disordered. In
the layered-nematic phase, the system breaks up into layers, with nematic order
in each in each layer, but very weak correlation between the ordering direction
between different layers. We argue that the layered-nematic phase is a
finite-size effect, and in the thermodynamic limit, the nematic phase will have
higher entropy per site."  2017-05-30  "['Vigneshwar', 'Dhar', 'Rajesh']"
1705.10551 "Simple theory for oscillatory charge profile in ionic liquids near a
  charged wall" cond-mat.soft "The mesoscopic field theory for ionic systems [A. Ciach and G. Stell, J. Mol.
Liq. 87, 255 (2000)] is extended to the system with charged boundaries. A very
simple expression for the excess grand potential functional of the charge
density is developed. The size of hard-cores of ions is taken into account in
the expression for the internal energy. The functional is suitable for a
description of a distribution of ions in ionic liquids and ionic liquid
mixtures with neutral components near a weakly charged wall. The Euler-Lagrange
equation is obtained, and solved for a flat confining surface. An exponentially
damped oscillatory charge density profile is obtained. The electrostatic
potential for the restricted primitive model agrees with the simulation results
on a semiquantitative level."  2017-05-30  ['Ciach']
1705.10560 "Synthesis and magnetic properties of a quantum magnet PbCuTeO5" cond-mat.str-el "We report the structural and magnetic properties of a quantum magnet
PbCuTeO5. The triclinic structure of PbCuTeO5 comprises of alternating layers
(ab-planes), in which one layer is composed of S = 1/2 dimer chains and another
layer is composed of S = 1/2 trimer chains formed by corner-shared CuO4 units.
Magnetic susceptibility data show a Curie-Weiss behavior with an
antiferromagnetic Curie-Weiss temperature (Theta_CW) of -165 K. At low
temperature, both the heat capacity Cp(T) and susceptibility data show an
anomaly at Tc = 6 K with a weak ferromagnetic (WFM) moment suggesting the
appearance of long-range order. The magnetization vs. field M(H) data at 2 K
also provide evidence for WFM behavior. Magnetic frustration with a frustration
parameter f = Theta_CW/Tc of about 27 is observed. Magnetic specific heat data
suggest the presence of a large entropy in the paramagnetic region, well above
Tc, suggesting the presence of short-range spin correlations. The observed
results might originate from the frustrated network of S = 1/2 distorted
checkerboard lattice formed due to the coupling of the spin chains via TeO6
octahedral units in the ab-plane."  2017-05-30  "['Koteswararao', 'Chilakalapudi', 'Shahee', 'Srinivasarao', 'Srinath', 'Mahajan']"
1705.10563 "Highly-Oriented Atomically Thin Ambipolar MoSe$_2$ Grown by Molecular
  Beam Epitaxy" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs), together with other two-dimensional
(2D) materials have attracted great interest due to the unique optical and
electrical properties of atomically thin layers. In order to fulfill their
potential, developing large-area growth and understanding the properties of
TMDCs have become crucial. Here, we used molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) to grow
atomically thin MoSe$_2$ on GaAs(111)B. No intermediate compounds were detected
at the interface of as-grown films. Careful optimization of the growth
temperature can result in the growth of highly aligned films with only two
possible crystalline orientations due to broken inversion symmetry. As-grown
films can be transferred onto insulating substrates allowing their optical and
electrical properties to be probed. By using polymer electrolyte gating, we
have achieved ambipolar transport in MBE-grown MoSe$_2$. The
temperature-dependent transport characteristics can be explained by the 2D
variable-range hopping (2D-VRH) model, indicating that the transport is
strongly limited by the disorder in the film." 10.1021/acsnano.7b02726 2017-05-30  "['Chen', 'Ovchinnikov', 'Lazar', 'Pizzochero', 'Whitwick', 'Surrente', 'Baranowski', 'Sanchez', 'Gillet', 'Plochocka', 'Yazyev', 'Kis']"
1705.10565 "Quasimomentum of an elementary excitation in a system of point bosons
  with zero boundary conditions" cond-mat.quant-gas "We show that, for a one-dimensional system of $N$ spinless point bosons with
zero boundary conditions (BCs), the quasimomentum of a quasiparticle is
determined by the formula
$p=\sum_{j=1}^{N}(|\acute{k}_{j}|-|k_{j}|)-\frac{1}{L}\sum_{i,j=1}^{N} \left
(\arctan{\frac{c}{|\acute{k}_{i}|+|\acute{k}_{j}|}}-
\arctan{\frac{c}{|k_{i}|+|k_{j}|}}\right )|_{j\neq i}$, where the collections
$\{|\acute{k}_{i}|\}$ and $\{|k_{i}|\}$ are the solutions of the Gaudin
equations for a state with one quasiparticle and a state without
quasiparticles, respectively. For a periodic system,
$p=\sum_{j=1}^{N}(\acute{k}_{j}-k_{j})$. We also find that the dispersion law
$E(p)$ of the system with zero BCs coincides with that of a system with
periodic BCs."  2017-05-30  ['Tomchenko']
1705.10577 "High temperature pairing in a strongly interacting two-dimensional Fermi
  gas" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.supr-con" "We observe many-body pairing in a two-dimensional gas of ultracold fermionic
atoms at temperatures far above the critical temperature for superfluidity. For
this, we use spatially resolved radio-frequency spectroscopy to measure pairing
energies spanning a wide range of temperatures and interaction strengths. In
the strongly interacting regime where the scattering length between fermions is
on the same order as the inter-particle spacing, the pairing energy in the
normal phase significantly exceeds the intrinsic two-body binding energy of the
system and shows a clear dependence on local density. This implies that pairing
in this regime is driven by many-body correlations, rather than two-body
physics. We find this effect to persist at temperatures close to the Fermi
temperature which demonstrates that pairing correlations in strongly
interacting two-dimensional fermionic systems are remarkably robust against
thermal fluctuations."  2017-05-30  "['Murthy', 'Neidig', 'Klemt', 'Bayha', 'Boettcher', 'Enss', 'Holten', 'Zürn', 'Preiss', 'Jochim']"
1705.10589 "Jeffrey's prior sampling of deep sigmoidal networks" "cond-mat.dis-nn cs.CV" "Neural networks have been shown to have a remarkable ability to uncover low
dimensional structure in data: the space of possible reconstructed images form
a reduced model manifold in image space. We explore this idea directly by
analyzing the manifold learned by Deep Belief Networks and Stacked Denoising
Autoencoders using Monte Carlo sampling. The model manifold forms an only
slightly elongated hyperball with actual reconstructed data appearing
predominantly on the boundaries of the manifold. In connection with the results
we present, we discuss problems of sampling high-dimensional manifolds as well
as recent work [M. Transtrum, G. Hart, and P. Qiu, Submitted (2014)] discussing
the relation between high dimensional geometry and model reduction."  2017-05-25  "['Hayden', 'Alemi', 'Ginsparg', 'Sethna']"
1705.10600 "Antiferromagnetic opto-spintronics: Part of a collection of reviews on
  antiferromagnetic spintronics" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Control and detection of spin order in ferromagnets is the main principle
allowing storing and reading of magnetic information in nowadays technology.
The large class of antiferromagnets, on the other hand, is less utilized,
despite its very appealing features for spintronics applications. For instance,
the absence of net magnetization and stray fields eliminates crosstalk between
neighbouring devices and the absence of a primary macroscopic magnetization
makes spin manipulation in antiferromagnets inherently faster than in
ferromagnets. However, control of spins in antiferromagnets requires
exceedingly high magnetic fields, and antiferromagnetic order cannot be
detected with conventional magnetometry. Here we provide an overview and
illustrative examples of how electromagnetic radiation can be used for probing
and modification of the magnetic order in antiferromagnets. Spin pumping from
antiferromagnets, propagation of terahertz spin excitations, and tracing the
reversal of the antiferromagnetic and ferroelectric order parameter in
multiferroics are anticipated to be among the main topics defining the future
of this field."  2017-05-30 2017-06-06 "['Nemec', 'Fiebig', 'Kampfrath', 'Kimel']"
1705.10616 "Dynamics of electron currents in nanojunctions with time-varying
  components and interactions" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.stat-mech" "We study the dynamics of the electron current in nanodevices where there are
time-varying components and interactions. These devices are a nanojunction
attached to heat baths and with dynamical electron-phonon interactions and a
nanojunction with photon beams incident and reflected at the channel. We use
the two-time nonequilibrium Green's functions technique to calculate the
time-dependent electron current flowing across the devices. We find that
whenever a sudden change occurs in the device, the current takes time to react
to the abrupt change, overshoots, oscillates, and eventually settles down to a
steady value. With dynamical electron-phonon interactions, the interaction
gives rise to a net resistance that reduces the flow of current across the
device when a source-drain bias potential is attached. In the presence of
dynamical electron-photon interactions, the photons drive the electrons to
flow. The direction of flow, however, depends on the frequencies of the
incident photons. Furthermore, the direction of electron flow in one lead is
exactly opposite to the direction of flow in the other lead thereby resulting
in no net change in current flowing across the device."  2017-05-30  "['Cuansing', 'Bayocboc', 'Laurio']"
1705.10626 "Effective potential of the three-dimensional Ising model: the
  pseudo-$\epsilon$ expansion study" "cond-mat.stat-mech hep-lat hep-ph hep-th" "The ratios $R_{2k}$ of renormalized coupling constants $g_{2k}$ that enter
the effective potential and small-field equation of state acquire the universal
values at criticality. They are calculated for the three-dimensional scalar
$\lambda\phi^4$ field theory (3D Ising model) within the pseudo-$\epsilon$
expansion approach. Pseudo-$\epsilon$ expansions for the critical values of
$g_6$, $g_8$, $g_{10}$, $R_6 = g_6/g_4^2$, $R_8 = g_8/g_4^3$ and $R_{10} =
g_{10}/g_4^4$ originating from the five-loop renormalization group (RG) series
are derived. Pseudo-$\epsilon$ expansions for the sextic coupling have rapidly
diminishing coefficients, so addressing Pad\'e approximants yields proper
numerical results. Use of Pad\'e--Borel--Leroy and conformal mapping
resummation techniques further improves the accuracy leading to the values
$R_6^* = 1.6488$ and $R_6^* = 1.6490$ which are in a brilliant agreement with
the result of advanced lattice calculations. For the octic coupling the
numerical structure of the pseudo-$\epsilon$ expansions is less favorable.
Nevertheless, the conform-Borel resummation gives $R_8^* = 0.868$, the number
being close to the lattice estimate $R_8^* = 0.871$ and compatible with the
result of 3D RG analysis $R_8^* = 0.857$. Pseudo-$\epsilon$ expansions for
$R_{10}^*$ and $g_{10}^*$ are also found to have much smaller coefficients than
those of the original RG series. They remain, however, fast growing and big
enough to prevent obtaining fair numerical estimates." 10.1016/j.nuclphysb.2017.05.019 2017-05-28  "['Sokolov', 'Kudlis', 'Nikitina']"
1705.10627 "Fast optical control of spin in semiconductor interfacial structures" "cond-mat.other physics.app-ph" "We report on a picosecond-fast optical removal of spin polarization from a
self-confined photo-carrier system at an undoped GaAs/AlGaAs interface
possessing superior long-range and high-speed spin transport properties. We
employed a modified resonant spin amplification technique with unequal
intensities of subsequent pump pulses to experimentally distinguish the
evolution of spin populations originating from different excitation laser
pulses. We demonstrate that the density of spins, which is injected into the
system by means of the optical orientation, can be controlled by reducing the
electrostatic confinement of the system using an additional generation of
photocarriers. It is also shown that the disturbed confinement recovers within
hundreds of picoseconds after which spins can be again photo-injected into the
system."  2017-05-30  "['Nádvorník', 'Surýnek', 'Olejník', 'Novák', 'Wunderlich', 'Trojánek', 'Jungwirth', 'Němec']"
1705.10643 "Diagnosing Optical Lattices With Momentum Boosts" "quant-ph cond-mat.quant-gas" "We present a novel technique to diagnose the condensate fraction in an
optical lattice of weakly-interacting bosons based on the dynamics of the
trapped atoms under the influence of a momentum kick. It is shown using the
Multi-Configuration Time Dependent Hartree method for Bosons (MCTDHB) that the
two extreme cases of the superfluid and Mott insulator states exhibit different
behaviors when the lattice is briefly tilted. The current induced by the
momentum boost caused by the tilt depends directly on the amount of phase
coherence between the lattice sites which in turn depends on the condensate
fraction. The potential of using the relation between the frequency of the
induced current and the amount of momentum boost imparted to the system in
magnetic field gradiometery is also discussed."  2017-05-29  "['Elsayed', 'Streltsov']"
1705.10646 "Sandpile model on Scale Free Networks with preferential sand
  distribution: a new universality class" cond-mat.stat-mech "A two state sandpile model with preferential sand distribution is developed
and studied numerically on scale free networks with power-law degree ($k$)
distribution, {\em i.e.}: $P_k\sim k^{-\alpha}$. In this model, upon toppling
of a critical node sand grains are given one to each of the neighbouring nodes
with highest and lowest degrees instead of two randomly selected neighbouring
nodes as in a stochastic sandpile model. The critical behaviour of the model is
determined by characterizing various avalanche properties at the steady state
varying the network structure from scale free to random, tuning $\alpha$ from
$2$ to $5$. The model exhibits mean field scaling on the random networks,
$\alpha>4$. However, in the scale free regime, $2<\alpha<4$, the scaling
behaviour of the model not only deviates from the mean-field scaling but also
the exponents describing the scaling behaviour are found to decrease
continuously as $\alpha$ decreases. In this regime, the critical exponents of
the present model are found to be different from those of the two state
stochastic sandpile model on similar networks. The preferential sand
distribution thus has non-trivial effects on the sandpile dynamics which leads
the model to a new universality class."  2017-05-30  "['Bhaumik', 'Santra']"
1705.10654 "Integrated Modeling of Second Phase Precipitation in Cold-Worked 316
  Stainless Steels under Irradiation" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.app-ph" "The current work combines the Cluster Dynamics (CD) technique and
CALPHAD-based precipitation modeling to address the second phase precipitation
in cold-worked (CW) 316 stainless steels (SS) under irradiation at 300-400 C.
CD provides the radiation enhanced diffusion and dislocation evolution as
inputs for the precipitation model. The CALPHAD-based precipitation model
treats the nucleation, growth and coarsening of precipitation processes based
on classical nucleation theory and evolution equations, and simulates the
composition, size and size distribution of precipitate phases. We benchmark the
model against available experimental data at fast reactor conditions (9.4 x
10^-7 dpa/s and 390 C) and then use the model to predict the phase instability
of CW 316 SS under light water reactor (LWR) extended life conditions (7 x
10^-8 dpa/s and 275 C). The model accurately predicts the gamma-prime (Ni3Si)
precipitation evolution under fast reactor conditions and that the formation of
this phase is dominated by radiation enhanced segregation. The model also
predicts a carbide volume fraction that agrees well with available experimental
data from a PWR reactor but is much higher than the volume fraction observed in
fast reactors. We propose that radiation enhanced dissolution and/or carbon
depletion at sinks that occurs at high flux could be the main sources of this
inconsistency. The integrated model predicts ~1.2% volume fraction for carbide
and ~3.0% volume fraction for gamma-prime for typical CW 316 SS (with 0.054
wt.% carbon) under LWR extended life conditions. This work provides valuable
insights into the magnitudes and mechanisms of precipitation in irradiated CW
316 SS for nuclear applications."  2017-05-26  "['Mamivand', 'Yang', 'Busby', 'Morgan']"
1705.10657 "A Fibrous Solid Electrolyte for Lithium-ion Batteries" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The new methodology proposed in this work uses oxide filaments/fibers instead
of a dense thin film electrolyte, allowing: (i) straightforward fabrication
without the use of costly thin film production techniques, (ii) minor changes
in the existing Li- ion battery production lines, and (iii) better mechanical
stability and electrochemical performance. Li7La3Zr2O12 (LLZO) fibers as an
electrolyte were prepared using the electrospinning technique. The
crystallographic phase and morphology of the products was studied X-ray
diffraction (XRD) patterns and scanning electron microscopy (SEM),
respectively. The results indicated that the produced electrolyte would be a
good alternative of all-solid-state batteries for electric vehicles in terms of
battery safety and performance."  2017-05-27  ['Erol']
1705.10668 "Heteroepitaxial growth of tetragonal Mn$_{2.7-x}$Fe$_{x}$Ga$_{1.3}$ (0
  $\leqslant$ x $\leqslant$ 1.2) Heusler films with perpendicular magnetic
  anisotropy" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "This work reports on the structural and magnetic properties of
Mn$_{2.7-x}$Fe$_{x}$Ga$_{1.3}$ Heusler films with different Fe content x (0
$\leqslant$ x $\leqslant$ 1.2). The films were deposited heteroepitaxially on
MgO single crystal substrates, by magnetron sputtering.
Mn$_{2.7-x}$Fe$_{x}$Ga$_{1.3}$ films with the thickness of 35 nm were
crystallized in tetragonal D0$_{22}$ structure with (001) preferred
orientation. Tunable magnetic properties were achieved by changing the Fe
content x. Mn$_{2.7-x}$Fe$_{x}$Ga$_{1.3}$ thins films exhibit high uniaxial
anisotropy Ku $\geqslant$ 1.4 MJ/m3, coercivity from 0.95 to 0.3 T and
saturation magnetization from 290 to 570 kA/m. The film with
Mn$_{1.6}$Fe$_{1.1}$Ga$_{1.3}$ composition shows high Ku of 1.47 MJ/m3 and
energy product ${(BH)_{max}}$ of 37 kJ/m3, at room temperature. These findings
demonstrate that Mn$_{2.7-x}$Fe$_{x}$Ga$_{1.3}$ films have promising properties
for mid-range permanent magnet and spintronic applications."  2017-05-30  "['Kalache', 'Markou', 'Selle', 'Höche', 'Fecher', 'Felser']"
1705.10670 "Duality between the deconfined quantum-critical point and the bosonic
  topological transition" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech hep-lat" "Recently significant progress has been made in $(2+1)$-dimensional conformal
field theories without supersymmetry. In particular, it was realized that
different Lagrangians may be related by hidden dualities, i.e., seemingly
different field theories may actually be identical in the infrared limit. Among
all the proposed dualities, one has attracted particular interest in the field
of strongly-correlated quantum-matter systems: the one relating the easy-plane
noncompact CP$^1$ model (NCCP$^1$) and noncompact quantum electrodynamics (QED)
with two flavors ($N = 2$) of massless two-component Dirac fermions. The
easy-plane NCCP$^1$ model is the field theory of the putative deconfined
quantum-critical point separating a planar (XY) antiferromagnet and a dimerized
(valence-bond solid) ground state, while $N=2$ noncompact QED is the theory for
the transition between a bosonic symmetry-protected topological phase and a
trivial Mott insulator. In this work we present strong numerical support for
the proposed duality. We realize the $N=2$ noncompact QED at a critical point
of an interacting fermion model on the bilayer honeycomb lattice and study it
using determinant quantum Monte Carlo (QMC) simulations. Using stochastic
series expansion QMC, we study a planar version of the $S=1/2$ $J$-$Q$ spin
Hamiltonian (a quantum XY-model with additional multi-spin couplings) and show
that it hosts a continuous transition between the XY magnet and the
valence-bond solid. The duality between the two systems, following from a
mapping of their phase diagrams extending from their respective critical
points, is supported by the good agreement between the critical exponents
according to the proposed duality relationships."  2017-05-30  "['Qin', 'He', 'You', 'Lu', 'Sen', 'Sandvik', 'Xu', 'Meng']"
1705.10672 "Shear shock waves are observed in the brain" "cond-mat.soft physics.bio-ph q-bio.NC" "The internal deformation of the brain is far more complex than the rigid
motion of the skull. An ultrasound imaging technique that we have developed has
a combination of penetration, frame-rate, and motion detection accuracy
required to directly observe, for the first time, the formation and evolution
of shear shock waves in the brain. Experiments at low impacts on the traumatic
brain injury scale demonstrate that they are spontaneously generated and
propagate within the porcine brain. Compared to the initially smooth impact,
the acceleration at the shock front is amplified up to a factor of 8.5. This
highly localized increase in acceleration suggests that shear shock waves are a
fundamental mechanism for traumatic injuries in soft tissue."  2017-05-30  "['Espindola', 'Lee', 'Pinton']"
1705.10673 "Synthesis, characterization and computational simulation of graphene
  nanoplatelets stabilized in poly(styrene sulfonate) sodium salt" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The production of large area interfaces and the use of scalable methods to
build-up designed nanostructures generating advanced functional properties are
of high interest for many materials science applications. Nevertheless, large
area coverage remains a major problem for pristine graphene and here we present
a hybrid, composite graphene-like material soluble in water, which can be
exploited in many areas, such as energy storage, electrodes fabrication,
selective membranes and biosensing. Graphene oxide (GO) was produced by the
traditional Hummers method being further reduced in the presence of
poly(styrene sulfonate) sodium salt (PSS), thus creating stable reduced
graphene oxide (rGO) nanoplateles wrapped by PSS (GPSS). Molecular dynamics
simulations were carried out of further clarify the interactions between PSS
molecules and rGO nanoplatelets, with calculations supported by FTIR analysis.
The intermolecular forces between rGO nanoplatelets and PSS lead to the
formation of a hybrid material (GPSS) stabilized by van der Waals forces,
allowing the fabrication of high quality layer-by-layer (LbL) films with
polyalillamine hydrochloride (PAH). Raman and electrical characterizations
corroborated the successful modifications in the electronic structures from GO
to GPSS after the chemical treatment, resulting in (PAH/GPSS) LbL films four
orders of magnitude more conductive than (PAH/GO)."  2017-05-30  "['Miyazaki', 'Maria', 'Borges', 'Woellner', 'Brunetto', 'Fonseca', 'Constantino', 'Pereira-da-Silva', 'de Siervo', 'Galvao', 'Riul']"
1705.10675 "Spin-transport, spin-torque and memory in antiferromagnetic devices:
  Part of a collection of reviews on antiferromagnetic spintronics" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.other" "Ferromagnets are key materials for sensing and memory applications. In
contrast, antiferromagnets that represent the more common form of magnetically
ordered materials, have so far found less practical application beyond their
use for establishing reference magnetic orientations via exchange bias. This
might change in the future due to the recent progress in materials research and
discoveries of antiferromagnetic spintronic phenomena suitable for device
applications. Experimental demonstrations of the electrical switching and
electrical detection of the N\'eel order open a route towards memory devices
based on antiferromagnets. Apart from the radiation and magnetic-field
hardness, memory cells fabricated in antiferromagnets are inherently multilevel
which could be used for neuromorphic computing. Switching speeds attainable in
antiferromagnets far exceed those of the ferromagnetic and semiconductor memory
technologies. Here we review the recent progress in electronic spin-transport
and spin-torque phenomena in antiferromagnets that are dominantly of the
relativistic quantum mechanics origin. We discuss their utility in pure
antiferromagnetic or hybrid ferromagnetic/antiferromagnetic memory devices"  2017-05-30  "['Železný', 'Wadley', 'Hoffmann', 'Ohno']"
1705.10676 "Statistical Mechanics of the Uniform Electron Gas" "math-ph cond-mat.stat-mech math.MP physics.chem-ph" "In this paper we define and study the classical Uniform Electron Gas (UEG), a
system of infinitely many electrons whose density is constant everywhere in
space. The UEG is defined differently from Jellium, which has a positive
constant background but no constraint on the density. We prove that the UEG
arises in Density Functional Theory in the limit of a slowly varying density,
minimizing the indirect Coulomb energy. We also construct the quantum UEG and
compare it to the classical UEG at low density."  2017-05-30  "['Lewin', 'Lieb', 'Seiringer']"
1705.10684 "Kinks and antikinks of buckled graphene: A testing ground for phi^4
  field model" cond-mat.mes-hall "Kinks and antikinks of the classical phi^4 field model are topological
solutions connecting its two distinct ground states.
  Here we establish an analogy between the excitations of a long graphene
nanoribbon buckled in the transverse direction and phi^4 model results. Using
molecular dynamics simulations, we investigated the dynamics of a buckled
graphene nanoribbon with a single kink and with a kink-antikink pair. Several
features of phi^4 model have been observed including the kink-antikink capture
at low energies, kink-antikink reflection at high energies, and a bounce
resonance. Our results pave the way towards the experimental observation of a
rich variety of phi^4 model predictions based on graphene."  2017-05-30  "['Yamaletdinov', 'Slipko', 'Pershin']"
1705.10705 "Properties of the water to boron nitride interaction: from zero to two
  dimensions with benchmark accuracy" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Molecular adsorption on surfaces plays an important part in catalysis,
corrosion, desalination, and various other processes that are relevant to
industry and in nature. As a complement to experiments, accurate adsorption
energies can be obtained using various sophisticated electronic structure
methods that can now be applied to periodic systems. The adsorption energy of
water on boron nitride substrates, going from zero to 2-dimensional
periodicity, is particularly interesting as it calls for an accurate treatment
of polarizable electrostatics and dispersion interactions, as well as posing a
practical challenge to experiments and electronic structure methods. Here, we
present reference adsorption energies, static polarizabilities, and dynamic
polarizabilities, for water on BN substrates of varying size and dimension.
Adsorption energies are computed with coupled cluster theory, fixed-node
quantum Monte Carlo (FNQMC), the random phase approximation (RPA), and second
order M{\o}ller-Plesset (MP2) theory. These explicitly correlated methods are
found to agree in molecular as well as periodic systems. The best estimate of
the water/h-BN adsorption energy is $-107\pm7$ meV from FNQMC. In addition, the
water adsorption energy on the BN substrates could be expected to grow
monotonically with the size of the substrate due to increased dispersion
interactions but interestingly, this is not the case here. This peculiar
finding is explained using the static polarizabilities and molecular dispersion
coefficients of the systems, as computed from time-dependent density functional
theory (DFT). Dynamic as well as static polarizabilities are found to be highly
anisotropic in these systems. In addition, the many-body dispersion method in
DFT emerges as a particularly useful estimation of finite size effects for
other expensive, many-body wavefunction based methods."  2017-05-30  "['Al-Hamdani', 'Rossi', 'Alfè', 'Tsatsoulis', 'Ramberger', 'Brandenburg', 'Zen', 'Kresse', 'Grüneis', 'Tkatchenko', 'Michaelides']"
1705.10721 "High-pressure structural, elastic, and thermodynamic properties of
  zircon-type HoPO4 and TmPO4" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Zircon-type HoPO4 and TmPO4 have been studied by single-crystal x-ray
diffraction and ab initio calculations. We report information on the influence
of pressure on the crystal structure, and on the elastic and thermodynamic
properties. The equation of state for both compounds is accurately determined.
We have also obtained information on the polyhedral compressibility which is
used to explain the anisotropic axial compressibility and the bulk
compressibility. Both compounds are ductile and more resistive to volume
compression than to shear deformation at all pressures. Furthermore, the
elastic anisotropy is enhanced upon compression. Finally, the calculations
indicate that the possible causes that make unstable the zircon structure are
mechanical instabilities and the softening of a silent B1u mode." 10.1088/1361-648X/aa516a 2017-05-30  "['Gomis', 'Lavina', 'Rodríguez-Hernández', 'Muñoz', 'Errandonea', 'Errandonea', 'Bettinelli']"
1705.10722 "Real-Time Observation of Exciton-Phonon Coupling Dynamics in
  Self-Assembled Hybrid Perovskite Quantum Wells" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.optics" "Self-assembled hybrid perovskite quantum wells have attracted attention due
to their tunable emission properties, ease of fabrication and device
integration. However, the dynamics of excitons in these materials, especially
how they couple to phonons remains an open question. Here, we investigate two
widely used materials, namely butylammonium lead iodide
$(CH_3(CH_2)3NH_3)2PbI_4$ and hexylammonium lead iodide
$(CH_3(CH_2)5NH_3)2PbI_4$, both of which exhibit broad photoluminescence tails
at room temperature. We performed femtosecond vibrational spectroscopy to
obtain a real-time picture of the exciton phonon interaction and directly
identified the vibrational modes that couple to excitons. We show that the
choice of the organic cation controls which vibrational modes the exciton
couples to. In butylammonium lead iodide, excitons dominantly couple to a 100
cm-1 phonon mode, whereas in hexylammonium lead iodide, excitons interact with
phonons with frequencies of 88 cm-1 and 137 cm-1. Using the determined optical
phonon energies, we analyzed PL broadening mechanisms. At low temperatures
(<100 K), the broadening is due to acoustic phonon scattering, whereas at high
temperatures, LO phonon-exciton coupling is the dominant mechanism. Our results
help explain the broad photoluminescence lineshapes observed in hybrid
perovskite quantum wells and provide insights into the mechanism of
exciton-phonon coupling in these materials."  2017-05-30 2017-06-01 "['Ni', 'Huynh', 'Cheminal', 'Thomas', 'Shivanna', 'Sadhanala', 'Hinrichsen', 'Rao']"
1705.10737 "Dipolar spin ice states with fast monopole hopping rate in CdEr$_2X_4$
  ($X$ = Se, S)" cond-mat.str-el "Excitations in a spin ice behave as magnetic monopoles, and their population
and mobility control the dynamics of a spin ice at low temperature.
CdEr$_2$Se$_4$ is reported to have the Pauling entropy characteristic of a spin
ice, but, surprisingly, its dynamics are three-orders of magnitude faster than
the canonical rare earth titanate spin ice Dy$_2$Ti$_2$O$_7$. In this letter we
use diffuse neutron scattering to show that both CdEr$_2$Se$_4$ and
CdEr$_2$S$_4$ support a dipolar spin ice state - the host phase for a Coulomb
gas of emergent magnetic monopoles. At low temperatures these Coulomb gases
have similar parameters to that in Dy$_2$Ti$_2$O$_7$, i.e. dilute and
uncorrelated, so cannot provide three-orders faster dynamics through a larger
monopole population. We investigate the monopole dynamics using ac
susceptometry and neutron spin echo spectroscopy, and verify the crystal
electric field Hamiltonian of the Er$^{3+}$ ions using inelastic neutron
scattering. We find that a calculation of the monopole hopping rate using our
Coulomb gas and crystal electric field parameters quantitatively reproduces the
fast dynamics in CdEr$_2X_4$ ($X$ = Se, S). Our work shows that CdEr$_2X_4$ are
dilute magnetic Coulomb gases with high monopole mobility."  2017-05-30 2017-05-31 "['Gao', 'Zaharko', 'Tsurkan', 'Prodan', 'Riordan', 'Lago', 'Fåk', 'Wildes', 'Koza', 'Ritter', 'Fouquet', 'Keller', 'Canévet', 'Medarde', 'Blomgren', 'Johansson', 'Giblin', 'Vrtnik', 'Luzar', 'Loidl', 'Rüegg', 'Fennell']"
1705.10763 "Ab initio calculations of the concentration dependent band gap reduction
  in dilute nitrides" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "While being of persistent interest for the integration of lattice-matched
laser devices with silicon circuits, the electronic structure of dilute nitride
III/V-semiconductors has presented a challenge to ab initio computational
approaches. The root of this lies in the strong distortion N atoms exert on
most host materials. Here, we resolve these issues by combining density
functional theory calculations based on the meta-GGA functional presented by
Tran and Blaha (TB09) with a supercell approach for the dilute nitride Ga(NAs).
Exploring the requirements posed to supercells, we show that the distortion
field of a single N atom must be allowed to decrease so far, that it does not
overlap with its periodic images. This also prevents spurious electronic
interactions between translational symmetric atoms, allowing to compute band
gaps in very good agreement with experimentally derived reference values. These
results open up the field of dilute nitride compound semiconductors to
predictive ab initio calculations."  2017-05-30  "['Rosenow', 'Bannow', 'Fischer', 'Stolz', 'Volz', 'Koch', 'Tonner']"
1705.10783 "A generalized model of social and biological contagion" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech" "We present a model of contagion that unifies and generalizes existing models
of the spread of social influences and micro-organismal infections. Our model
incorporates individual memory of exposure to a contagious entity (e.g., a
rumor or disease), variable magnitudes of exposure (dose sizes), and
heterogeneity in the susceptibility of individuals. Through analysis and
simulation, we examine in detail the case where individuals may recover from an
infection and then immediately become susceptible again (analogous to the
so-called SIS model). We identify three basic classes of contagion models which
we call \textit{epidemic threshold}, \textit{vanishing critical mass}, and
\textit{critical mass} classes, where each class of models corresponds to
different strategies for prevention or facilitation. We find that the
conditions for a particular contagion model to belong to one of the these three
classes depend only on memory length and the probabilities of being infected by
one and two exposures respectively. These parameters are in principle
measurable for real contagious influences or entities, thus yielding empirical
implications for our model. We also study the case where individuals attain
permanent immunity once recovered, finding that epidemics inevitably die out
but may be surprisingly persistent when individuals possess memory." 10.1016/j.jtbi.2004.09.006 2017-05-29  "['Dodds', 'Watts']"
1705.10787 "Absorption-free superluminal light propagation in a Landau-quantized
  graphene" cond-mat.mes-hall "Controlling of group velocity has attracted enormous interest in the recent
years. One of the main challenges remains the realization of an absorption-free
fast or slow light propagation. Here, we report on a gain-assisted superluminal
light propagation in a Landau-quantized graphene. Additionally, dynamical
behaviour of dispersion and absorption of a weak probe field in a closed-type
graphene system is investigated, and we find that the absorption and dispersion
can be dramatically affected by the relative phase of the coherent fields and
Rabi frequencies in such a way that a large transient gain is achieved and the
transient absorption can be completely eliminated just by choosing the proper
relative phase."  2017-05-30  "['Kazemi', 'Maleki', 'Mahmoudi']"
1705.10789 "Electrical conductivity of quasi-two-dimensional foams" cond-mat.soft "Quasi-two-dimensional (quasi-2D) foams consist of monolayers of bubbles
squeezed between two narrowly spaced plates. These simplified foams have served
successfully in the past to shed light on numerous issues in foam physics. Here
we consider the electrical conductivity of such model foams. We compare
experiments to a model which we propose, and which successfully relates the
structural and the conductive properties of the foam over the full range of the
investigated liquid content. We show in particular that in the case of quasi-2D
foams the liquid in the nodes needs to be taken into account even at low liquid
content. We think that these results may provide different approaches for the
characterization of foam properties and for the in situ characterization of the
liquid content of foams in confining geometries, such as microfluidics" 10.1103/PhysRevE.91.042301 2017-05-30  "['Yazhgur', 'Honorez', 'Drenckhan', 'Langevin', 'Salonen']"
1705.10795 "Magnetic and nematic orders of the 2DEG at oxide (111) surfaces and
  interfaces" cond-mat.str-el "Recent experiments have explored two-dimensional electron gases (2DEGs) at
oxide (111) surfaces and interfaces, finding evidence for hexagonal symmetry
breaking in SrTiO$_3$ at low temperature. We discuss many-body instabilities of
such (111) 2DEGs, incorporating multiorbital interactions in the $t_{2g}$
manifold, and show that this can induce diverse magnetic and orbital orders.
Such broken symmetries may partly account for the observed nematicity,
cooperating or competing with phonon instabilities. We present an effective
field theory for the interplay of magnetism and nematic charge order, and
discuss implications of nematic order for transport and superconductivity in
(111) 2DEGs."  2017-05-30 2017-06-03 "['Boudjada', 'Wachtel', 'Paramekanti']"
1705.10798 "Quantum multicriticality near the Dirac semimetal-band insulator
  critical point in two dimensions: A controlled ascent from one dimension" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall" "We compute the effects of generic short-range interactions on gapless
electrons residing at the quantum critical point separating a two-dimensional
Dirac semimetal (DSM) and a symmetry-preserving band insulator (BI). The
electronic dispersion at this critical point is anisotropic ($E_{\mathbf k}=\pm
\sqrt{v^2 k^2_x + b^2 k^{2n}_y}$ with $n=2$), which results in unconventional
scaling of physical observables. Due to the vanishing density of states
($\varrho(E) \sim |E|^{1/n}$), this anisotropic semimetal (ASM) is stable
against weak short-range interactions. However, for stronger interactions the
direct DSM-BI transition can either $(i)$ become a first-order transition, or
$(ii)$ get avoided by an intervening broken-symmetry phase (BSP). We perform a
renormalization group analysis by perturbing away from the one-dimensional
limit with the small parameter $\epsilon = 1/n$, augmented with a $1/n$
expansion (parametrically suppressing quantum fluctuations in higher
dimension). We identify charge density wave (CDW), antiferromagnet (AFM) and
singlet $s$-wave superconductor as the three dominant candidates for the BSP.
The onset of any such order at strong coupling $(\sim \epsilon)$ takes place
through a continuous quantum phase transition across multicritical point. We
also present the phase diagram of an extended Hubbard model for the ASM,
obtained via the controlled deformation of its counterpart in one dimension.
The latter displays spin-charge separation and instabilities to CDW, spin
density wave, and Luther-Emery liquid phases at arbitrarily weak coupling. The
spin density wave and Luther-Emery liquid phases deform into pseudospin
SU(2)-symmetric quantum critical points separating the ASM from the AFM and
superconducting orders, respectively. Our results can be germane for a
uniaxially strained honeycomb lattice or organic compound
$\alpha$-(BEDT-TTF)$_2\text{I}_3$."  2017-05-30  "['Roy', 'Foster']"
1705.10807 "How a small quantum bath can thermalize long localized chains" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.dis-nn" "We investigate the stability of the many-body localized (MBL) phase for a
system in contact with a single ergodic grain, modelling a Griffiths region
with low disorder. Our numerical analysis provides evidence that even a small
ergodic grain consisting of only 3 qubits can delocalize a localized chain, as
soon as the localization length exceeds a critical value separating localized
and extended regimes of the whole system. We present a simple theory,
consistent with the arguments in [Phys. Rev. B 95, 155129 (2017)], that assumes
a system to be locally ergodic unless the local relaxation time, determined by
Fermi's Golden Rule, is larger than the inverse level spacing. This theory
predicts a critical value for the localization length that is perfectly
consistent with our numerical calculations. We analyze in detail the behavior
of local operators inside and outside the ergodic grain, and find excellent
agreement of numerics and theory."  2017-05-30  "['Luitz', 'Huveneers', 'de Roeck']"
1705.10809 "Interplay between disorder and Coulomb interaction in nodal-line
  semimetals" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.dis-nn" "In nodal-line semimetals, Coulomb interactions and disorder are both marginal
perturbations to the clean non-interacting Hamiltonian. We analyze their
interplay using a weak-coupling renormal- ization group approach. In the clean
case, the Coulomb interaction has been found to be marginally irrelevant,
leading to Fermi liquid behavior. We extend the analysis to incorporate the
effects of disorder. The nodal line structure gives rise to kinematical
constraints similar to that for a two- dimensional Fermi surface, which plays a
crucial role in the one-loop renormalization of the disorder couplings. For a
two-fold degenerate nodal loop (Weyl loop), we show that disorder flows to
strong coupling along a unique fixed trajectory in the space of symmetry
inequivalent disorder couplings. Along this fixed trajectory, all symmetry
inequivalent disorder strengths become equal. For a four- fold degenerate nodal
loop (Dirac loop), disorder also flows to strong coupling, however the
strengths of symmetry inequivalent disorder couplings remain different. We show
that feedback from disorder reverses the sign of the beta function for the
Coulomb interaction, causing the Coulomb interac- tion to flow to strong
coupling as well. However, the Coulomb interaction flows to strong coupling
asymptotically more slowly than disorder. Extrapolating our results to strong
coupling, we conjec- ture that at low energies nodal line semimetals should be
described by a noninteracting nonlinear sigma model. We discuss the relation of
our results with possible many-body localization at zero temperatures in such
materials."  2017-05-30  "['Wang', 'Nandkishore']"
1705.10828 "Isotropic finite-difference discretization of stochastic conservation
  laws preserving detailed balance" cond-mat.stat-mech "The dynamics of thermally fluctuating conserved order parameters are
described by stochastic conservation laws. Thermal equilibrium in such systems
requires the dissipative and stochastic components of the flux to be related by
detailed balance. Preserving this relation in spatial and temporal
discretization is necessary to obtain solutions that have fidelity to the
continuum. Here, we propose a finite-difference discretization that preserves
detailed balance on the lattice, has spatial error that is isotropic to leading
order in lattice spacing, and can be integrated accurately in time using a
delayed difference method. We benchmark the method for model B dynamics with a
$\phi^{4}$ Landau free energy and obtain excellent agreement with analytical
results."  2017-05-30  "['Banerjee', 'Succi', 'Ansumali', 'Adhikari']"
1705.10835 "Topological electronic properties of silicon" cond-mat.mes-hall "The central role that materials play in human history is exemplified by the
three-age division of prehistory into the stone, bronze, and iron ages.
References to our present time as the information age or silicon age epitomizes
the important role that this semiconducting material came to play in the
development of computers and devices that permeate our daily lives. Remarkably,
silicon has been left out of the explosion of research activity on topological
materials. On the surface, this omission is the result of a boundary-centric
classification of undoped silicon as a ""trivial insulator"". Here we show that
the electronic states in silicon have nontrivial topological structures that
are captured by a network of Berry flux lines that link at points of high
symmetry in the Brillouin zone. This complex network has ice-nodal points where
fluxes satisfy ice rules. Fixing the longitudinal momentum parallel to such
flux lines yields a two-dimensional Dirac Hamiltonian for the transverse
degrees of freedom. This complex Berry-flux network implies a topologically
stable two-fold degeneracy along the X-W direction in all of silicon bands, a
fact that is supported by crystal symmetry arguments as well as direct
inspection of the vast literature on silicon band structures."  2017-05-30  "['Shtyk', 'Chamon']"
1705.10845 "Next generation extended Lagrangian first principles molecular dynamics" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Extended Lagrangian Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics [Phys. Rev. Lett.,
${\bf 100}$, 123004 (2008)] is formulated for general Hohenberg-Kohn density
functional theory and compared to the extended Lagrangian framework of first
principles molecular dynamics by Car and Parrinello [Phys. Rev. Lett. ${\bf
55}$, 2471 (1985)]. It is shown how extended Lagrangian Born-Oppenheimer
molecular dynamics overcomes several shortcomings of regular, direct
Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics, while improving or maintaining important
features of Car-Parrinello simulations. The accuracy of the electronic degrees
of freedom in extended Lagrangian Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics, with
respect to the exact Born-Oppenheimer solution, is of second order in the size
of the integration time step and of fourth order in the potential energy
surface. Improved stability over recent formulations of extended Lagrangian
Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics is achieved by generalizing the theory to
finite temperature ensembles, using fractional occupation numbers in the
calculation of the inner-product kernel of the extended harmonic oscillator
that appears as a preconditioner in the electronic equations of motion.
Materials systems that normally exhibit slow self-consistent field convergence
can be simulated using integration time steps of the same order as in direct
Born-Oppenheimer molecular dynamics, but without the requirement of an
iterative, non-linear electronic ground state optimization prior to the force
evaluations and without a systematic drift in the total energy. In combination
with proposed low-rank and on-the-fly updates of the kernel, this formulation
provides an efficient and general framework for quantum based Born-Oppenheimer
molecular dynamics simulations."  2017-05-30  ['Niklasson']
1705.10853 "Phase Slips in Superconducting Weak Links" cond-mat.supr-con "Superconducting vortices and phase slips are primary mechanisms of
dissipation in superconducting, superfluid, and cold atom systems. While the
dynamics of vortices is fairly well described, phase slips occurring in
quasi-one dimensional superconducting wires still elude understanding. The main
reason is that phase slips are strongly non-linear time-dependent phenomena
that cannot be cast in terms of small perturbations of the superconducting
state. Here we study phase slips occurring in superconducting weak links.
Thanks to partial suppression of superconductivity in weak links, we employ a
weakly nonlinear approximation for dynamic phase slips. This approximation is
not valid for homogeneous superconducting wires and slabs. Using the numerical
solution of the time-dependent Ginzburg-Landau equation and bifurcation
analysis of stationary solutions, we show that the onset of phase slips occurs
via an infinite period bifurcation, which is manifested in a specific
voltage-current dependence. Our analytical results are in good agreement with
simulations." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.014518 2017-05-30  "['Kimmel', 'Glatz', 'Aranson']"
1705.10866 "Relaxation of nonequilibrium populations after a pump: the breaking of
  Mathiessen$'$s rule" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el" "From the early days of many-body physics, it was realized that the
self-energy governs the relaxation or lifetime of the retarded Green$'$s
function. So it seems reasonable to directly extend those results into the
nonequilibrium domain. But experiments and calculations of the response of
quantum materials to a pump show that the relationship between the relaxation
and the self-energy only holds in special cases. Experimentally, the decay time
for a population to relax back to equilibrium and the linewidth measured in a
linear-response angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy differ by large
amounts. Theoretically, aside from the weak-coupling regime where the
relationship holds, one also finds deviations and additionally one sees
violations of Mathiessen$'$s rule. In this work, we examine whether looking at
an effective transport relaxation time helps to analyze the decay times of
excited populations as they relax back to equilibrium. We conclude that it may
do a little better, but it has a fitting parameter for the overall scale which
must be determined." 10.1117/12.2261872 2017-05-30  "['Freericks', 'Abdurazakov', 'Kemper']"
1705.10914 "Giant barocaloric effects in natural rubber: A relevant step towards
  solid-state cooling" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Solid-state cooling based on i-caloric effects has shown to be a promising
alternative to the conventional refrigeration devices. Only very recently, the
research on barocaloric materials is receiving a deal of attention due to the
demonstration of giant barocaloric effects in shape-memory alloys. Regarding
polymers, there is still a lack of literature, even considering its high
caloric potential. Thus, we present here giant barocaloric effects in natural
rubber, a low-cost and environmental friendly elastomer polymer. The maximum
values of entropy and temperature changes are similar to those previously
reported for any promising barocaloric material. Moreover, the huge normalized
temperature change, entropy change and refrigerant capacity exhibited by
natural rubber confirm its potential for cooling applications. Our findings
suggest that commercial refrigeration devices based on barocaloric effects from
elastomer polymers can be envisaged in the near future."  2017-05-30  "['Bom', 'Imamura', 'Usuda', 'Carvalho']"
1705.10936 "Dimer-Mott and charge-ordered insulating states in the
  quasi-one-dimensional organic conductors $\delta'_{P}$- and
  $\delta'_{C}$-(BPDT-TTF)$_2$ICl$_2$" cond-mat.str-el "We investigated the electronic states of the quasi-one-dimensional organic
conductors $\delta'_{P}$-(BPDT-TTF)$_2$ICl$_2$ and
$\delta'_{C}$-(BPDT-TTF)$_2$ICl$_2$, both of which are insulating at room
temperature owing to strong electron correlations. Through measurements of
electrical resistivity, optical conductivity, and magnetic susceptibility, as
well as band-structure calculations, we have revealed that the two materials
possess completely different ground states, even though they have the same
chemical composition and stacking configuration of the donor molecules. We have
found that the $\delta_P'$-type salt with an effective half-filled band behaves
as a dimer-Mott (DM) insulator and exhibits a nonmagnetic transition at 25 K,
whereas the $\delta'_C$-type salt with a 3/4-filled band shows a charge
ordering (CO) transition just above room temperature and becomes nonmagnetic
below 20 K. The optical spectra of the $\delta_P'$-type salt are composed of
two characteristic bands due to intra- and interdimer charge transfers,
supporting the DM insulating behavior arising from the strong on-site Coulomb
interaction. By contrast, in the $\delta'_C$-type salt, a single band
characterizing the formation of CO arising from the off-site Coulomb
interactions is observed. Upon lowering the temperature, the shape of the
optical spectra in the $\delta_C'$-type salt becomes asymmetric and shifts to
much lower frequencies, suggesting the emergence of domain-wall excitations
with fractional charges expected in a one-dimensional CO chain. The temperature
dependence of the magnetic susceptibility of the $\delta_P'$-type salt is well
described by a 2D spin-1/2 Heisenberg AFM model on an anisotropic square
lattice in the dimerized picture, while in the $\delta_C'$-type salt, it can be
explained by a 2D spin-1/2 Heisenberg AFM model on an anisotropic honeycomb
lattice formed in the CO state."  2017-05-30  "['Kobayashi', 'Hashimoto', 'Yoneyama', 'Yoshimi', 'Motoyama', 'Iguchi', 'Ikemoto', 'Moriwaki', 'Taniguchi', 'Sasaki']"
1705.10937 "Quantum phase transitions of a generalized compass chain with staggered
  Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction" cond-mat.str-el "We consider a class of one-dimensional compass models with staggered
Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya exchange interactions in an external transverse magnetic
field. Based on the exact solution derived from Jordan-Wigner approach, we
study the excitation gap, energy spectra, spin correlations and critical
properties at phase transitions. We explore mutual effects of the staggered
Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction and the magnetic field on the energy spectra
and the ground-state phase diagram. Thermodynamic quantities including the
entropy and the specific heat are discussed, and their universal scalings at
low temperature are demonstrated." 10.1088/1361-648X/aa6e6d 2017-05-30  "['Wu', 'Ni', 'You']"
1705.10952 "Generating nanoscale and atomically-sharp p-n junctions in graphene via
  monolayer-vacancy-island engineering of Cu surface" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Creation of high quality p-n junctions in graphene monolayer is vital in
studying many exotic phenomena of massless Dirac fermions. However, even with
the fast progress of graphene technology for more than ten years, it remains
conspicuously difficult to generate nanoscale and atomically-sharp p-n
junctions in graphene. Here, we employ monolayer-vacancy-island engineering of
Cu surface to realize nanoscale p-n junctions with atomically-sharp boundaries
in graphene monolayer. The variation of graphene-Cu separations around the
edges of the Cu monolayer-vacancy-island affects the positions of the Dirac
point in graphene, which consequently lead to atomically-sharp p-n junctions
with the height as high as 660 meV in graphene. The generated sharp p-n
junctions isolate the graphene above the Cu monolayer-vacancy-island as
nanoscale graphene quantum dots (GQDs) in a continuous graphene sheet. Massless
Dirac fermions are confined by the p-n junctions for a finite time to form
quasi-bound states in the GQDs. By using scanning tunneling microscopy, we
observe resonances of quasi-bound states in the GQDs with various sizes and
directly visualize effects of geometries of the GQDs on the quantum
interference patterns of the quasi-bound states, which allow us to test the
quantum electron optics based on graphene in atomic scale."  2017-05-31  "['Bai', 'Zhou', 'Wei', 'Qiao', 'Liu', 'Liu', 'Jiang', 'He']"
1705.10965 "Magic-wavelength Faraday probe measures spin continuously and without
  light shifts" "quant-ph cond-mat.quant-gas physics.atom-ph" "We describe a dispersive Faraday optical probe of atomic spin which performs
a weak measurement of spin projection of a quantum gas continuously for more
than one second. To date focusing bright far-off-resonance probes onto quantum
gases has proved invasive, due to strong scalar and vector light shifts
exerting dipole and Stern-Gerlach forces. We show that tuning the probe near
the magic-zero wavelength at 790 nm between the fine-structure doublet of
$^{87}$Rb cancels the scalar light shift, and careful control of polarization
eliminates the vector light shift. Faraday rotations due to each fine-structure
line reinforce at this wavelength, enhancing the signal-to-noise ratio for a
fixed rate of probe-induced decoherence. Using this minimally-invasive spin
probe we perform microscale atomic magnetometry at high temporal resolution.
Spectrogram analysis of the Larmor precession signal of a single spinor
Bose-Einstein condensate measures a time-varying magnetic field strength with 1
{\mu}G accuracy every 5 ms; or equivalently makes > 200 successive measurements
each at $10\,\mathrm{pT/\sqrt{Hz}}$ sensitivity."  2017-05-31  "['Jasperse', 'Kewming', 'Fischer', 'Pakkiam', 'Anderson', 'Turner']"
1705.10972 "Giant Spin Lifetime Anisotropy in Graphene Induced by Proximity Effects" cond-mat.mes-hall "We report on fundamental aspects of spin dynamics in graphene interfaced with
transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs). By using realistic models derived
from first principles we compute the spin lifetime anisotropy, defined as the
ratio of lifetimes for spins pointing out of the graphene plane to those
pointing in the plane. In the presence of strong intervalley scattering the
anisotropy can reach unprecedented values of tens to hundreds, while it reduces
to 1/2 for weak disorder. This behavior is mediated by spin-valley locking,
which is strong in TMDCs and is imprinted onto graphene. Such giant spin
transport anisotropy, driven by proximity effects, provides an exciting
paradigm for designing novel spin device functionalities."  2017-05-31  "['Cummings', 'García', 'Fabian', 'Roche']"
1705.10976 "Emergent phases in a compass chain with multisite interactions" "cond-mat.str-el quant-ph" "We study a dimerised spin chain with biaxial magnetic interacting ions in the
presence of an externally induced three-site interactions out of equilibrium.
In the general case, the three-site interactions play a role in renormalizing
the effective uniform magnetic field. We find that the existence of zero-energy
Majorana modes is intricately related to the sign of Pfaffian of the
Bogoliubov-de Gennes Hamiltonian and the relevant $Z_2$ topological invariant.
In contrast, we show that an exotic spin liquid phase can emerge in the compass
limit through a Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) quantum phase transition.
Such a BKT transition is characterized by a large dynamic exponent $z=4$, and
the spin-liquid phase is robust under a uniform magnetic field. We find the
relative entropy and the quantum discord can signal the BKT transitions. We
also uncover a few differences in deriving the correlation functions for the
systems with broken reflection symmetry." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.224404 2017-05-31  "['You', 'Zhang', 'Ni', 'Gong', 'Oleś']"
1705.10978 "Frequency-resolved Monte Carlo" "quant-ph cond-mat.quant-gas physics.app-ph" "We adapt the Quantum Monte Carlo method to the cascaded formalism of quantum
optics, allowing us to simulate the emission of photons of known energy.
Statistical processing of the photon clicks thus collected agrees with the
theory of frequency-resolved photon correlations, extending the range of
applications based on correlations of photons of prescribed energy, in
particular those of a photon-counting character. We apply the technique to
autocorrelations of photon streams from a two-level system under coherent and
incoherent pumping, including the Mollow triplet regime where we demonstrate
the direct manifestation of leapfrog processes in producing an increased rate
of two-photon emission events."  2017-05-31  "['Carreño', 'del Valle', 'Laussy']"
1705.10989 "Tuning the 0$-\pi$ Josephson junction with a high spin molecule: Role of
  tunnel contacts, exchange coupling, electron-electron interactions and high
  spin states" cond-mat.supr-con "We propose Josephson junction with a high spin molecule sandwiched between
two superconductors. This system shows a $\pi$ junction behaviour as a function
of the spin magnetic moment state of the molecule, the interface transparency,
exchange coupling and electron-electron interactions in the system. The system
is theoretically analysed for possible reason behind the $\pi$ shift. The
crucial role of spin flip scattering is highlighted. Possible applications in
quantum computation of our proposed tunable high spin molecule $\pi$ junction
is underscored."  2017-05-31  "['Pal', 'Benjamin']"
1705.11003 "Tuning of Magnetic and Electrical Properties in Complex oxide Thin Films
  Deposited By Pulsed Laser Deposition" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Lanthanum manganite, LaMnO (LMO) is the parent compound for a class of hole
doped(e.g. La1-xCaxMnO3, La1-xSrxMnO3) and electron doped (e.g. . La1-xCexMnO3,
La1-xSnxMnO3) perovskite complex oxide materials. Strong correlation between
the spin,lattice, charge and orbital degrees of freedom is a hallmark of these
class of materials (popularly known as manganites). Competition and interplay
of these degrees of freedom lead to a wide range of interesting electronic
behavior including half-metallicity, colossal magneto-resistivity, etc.
Although a lot of experimental research has been carried out on the hole doped
and the electron doped counterparts, the parent system LMO remains less
investigated. This could be attributed to the difficulty in making
stoichiometric LMO (whether in bulk polycrystalline, single crystals or thin
films). There exists phenomenon like double-exchange (DE) and
anti-ferromagnetic super-exchange (SE) interactions which leads to
ferromagnetism in LMO thin films. This project work is aimed at the fabrication
and characterization of thin films of stoichiometric LMO and their structural,
magnetic and electrical studies."  2017-05-31  ['Chouhan']
1705.11009 "Two bosonic quantum walkers in one-dimensional optical lattices" "quant-ph cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.quant-gas" "Dynamical properties of two bosonic quantum walkers in a one-dimensional
lattice are studied theoretically. Depending on the initial state,
interactions, lattice tilting, and lattice disorder, whole plethora of
different behaviors are observed. Particularly, it is shown that two bosons
system manifests the many-body localization like behavior in the presence of a
quenched disorder. The whole analysis is based on a specific decomposition of
the temporal density profile into different contributions from singly and
doubly occupied sites. In this way, the role of interactions is extracted.
Since the contributions can be directly measured in experiments with ultra-cold
atoms in optical lattices, the predictions presented may have some importance
for upcoming experiment."  2017-05-31 2017-06-03 "['Wiater', 'Sowiński', 'Zakrzewski']"
1705.11016 "Molecular Dynamics Simulations for Anisotropic Thermal Conductivity of
  Borophene" "physics.comp-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "The present work carries out molecular dynamics simulations to compute the
thermal conductivity of the borophene nanoribbon and the borophene nanotube
using the Muller-Plathe approach. We investigate the thermal conductivity of
the armchair and zigzag borophenes, and show the strong anisotropic thermal
conductivity property of borophene. We compare the results of the borophene
nanoribbon and the borophene nanotube, and find the thermal conductivity of the
borophene is structure dependent."  2017-05-31  "['Jia', 'Li', 'Jiang', 'Wei', 'Chen', 'Zhang']"
1705.11023 "Criticality & Deep Learning II: Momentum Renormalisation Group" "cond-mat.stat-mech cs.LG" "Guided by critical systems found in nature we develop a novel mechanism
consisting of inhomogeneous polynomial regularisation via which we can induce
scale invariance in deep learning systems. Technically, we map our deep
learning (DL) setup to a genuine field theory, on which we act with the
Renormalisation Group (RG) in momentum space and produce the flow equations of
the couplings; those are translated to constraints and consequently interpreted
as ""critical regularisation"" conditions in the optimiser; the resulting
equations hence prove to be sufficient conditions for - and serve as an elegant
and simple mechanism to induce scale invariance in any deep learning setup."  2017-05-31  "['Oprisa', 'Toth']"
1705.11045 "Numerical estimation of structure constants in the 3d Ising CFT through
  Markov chain UV sampler" "cond-mat.stat-mech hep-th physics.comp-ph" "[Herdeiro & Doyon Phys., Rev., E (2016)]
https://journals.aps.org/pre/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevE.94.043322 introduced a
numerical recipe, dubbed UV sampler, offering precise estimations of the CFT
data of the planar two-dimensional critical Ising model. It made use of scale
invariance emerging at the critical point in order to sample finite sublattice
marginals of the infinite plane Gibbs measure of the model by producing
``holographic"" boundary distributions. The main ingredient of the Markov chain
MonteCarlo (MCMC) sampler is the invariance under dilation. This article
presents a generalization to higher dimensions with the critical 3d Ising
model. This leads to numerical estimations of a subset of the CFT data -
scaling weights and structure constants - through fitting of measured
correlation functions. The results are shown to agree with the recent most
precise estimations from numerical bootstrap methods
\href{https://arxiv.org/abs/1603.04436}{[Kos,\;Poland,\;Vicci\;\&\;Simmons-Duffin
JHEP (2016)]}."  2017-05-31  ['Herdeiro']
1705.11047 "Quantum Simulation of QED in 1D: Evidence of a Phase Transition" "quant-ph cond-mat.str-el hep-lat hep-th" "We study a lattice and finite version of QED in 1+1 dimensions, where the
gauge group U$(1)$ is discretized with $\mathbb{Z}_n$. The model is obtained by
requiring that the unitary character of the minimal coupling structure is
preserved and has therefore the property of formally approximating lattice
quantum electrodynamics in the large-$n$ limit. The numerical study of such
approximated theories is important to determine their effectiveness in
reproducing the main features and phenomenology of the target theory. In this
paper we study the cases $n=2\div 8$ by means of a DMRG code that exactly
implements the Gauss law. We perform a careful scaling analysis, and show that,
in absence of a background field, all $\mathbb{Z}_n$-models exhibit a phase
transition which falls in the Ising universality class, with spontaneous
symmetry breaking of the $CP$ symmetry. We then perform the large-$n$ limit and
confirm that the zero-charge sector of lattice U$(1)$-model has a phase
transition at a negative critical value of the mass parameter, that we
calculate."  2017-05-31  "['Ercolessi', 'Facchi', 'Magnifico', 'Pascazio', 'Pepe']"
1705.11052 "Correlations in eigenfunctions of quantum chaotic systems with sparse
  Hamiltonian matrices" "quant-ph cond-mat.stat-mech nlin.CD" "In most realistic models for quantum chaotic systems, the Hamiltonian
matrices in unperturbed bases have a sparse structure. We study correlations in
eigenfunctions of such systems and derive explicit expressions for some of the
correlation functions with respect to energy. The analytical results are tested
in several models by numerical simulations. An application is given for a
relation between transition probabilities."  2017-05-27  "['Wang', 'Wang']"
1705.11061 "Confinement sensitivity in quantum dot singlet-triplet relaxation" cond-mat.mes-hall "Spin-orbit mediated phonon relaxation in a two-dimensional quantum dot is
investigated using different confining potentials. Elliptical harmonic
oscillator and cylindrical well results are compared to each other in the case
of a two-electron GaAs quantum dot subjected to a tilted magnetic field. The
lowest energy set of two-body singlet and triplet states are calculated
including spin-orbit and magnetic effects. These are used to calculate the
phonon induced transition rate from the excited triplet to the ground state
singlet for magnetic fields up to where the states cross. The roll of the cubic
Dresselhaus effect and the positioning of ""spin hot-spots"" are discussed and
relaxation rates for a few different systems are exhibited."  2017-05-31  "['Wesslén', 'Lindroth']"
1705.11062 "Transformation thermal convection: Cloaking, concentrating, and
  camouflage" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Heat can generally transfer via thermal conduction, thermal radiation, and
thermal convection. All the existing theories of transformation thermotics and
optics can treat thermal conduction and thermal radiation, respectively.
Unfortunately, thermal convection has never been touched in transformation
theories due to the lack of a suitable theory, thus limiting applications
associated with heat transfer through fluids (liquid or gas). Here, we develop,
for the first time, a general theory of transformation thermal convection by
considering the convection-diffusion equation, the Navier-Stokes equation, and
the Darcy law. By introducing porous media, we get a set of coupled equations
keeping their forms under coordinate transformation. As model applications, the
theory helps to show the effects of cloaking, concentrating, and camouflage.
Our finite element simulations confirm the theoretical findings. This work
offers a general transformation theory for thermal convection, thus revealing
some novel behaviors of thermal convection; it not only provides new hints on
how to control heat transfer by combining thermal conduction, thermal
radiation, and thermal convection, but also benefits the study of mass
diffusion and other related fields that contain a set of equations and need to
transform velocities at the same time."  2017-05-31  "['Dai', 'Shang', 'Huang']"
1705.11069 "Terahertz spin currents and inverse spin Hall effect in thin-film
  heterostructures containing complex magnetic compounds" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "Terahertz emission spectroscopy of ultrathin multilayers of magnetic and
heavy metals has recently attracted much interest. This method not only
provides fundamental insights into photoinduced spin transport and spin-orbit
interaction at highest frequencies but has also paved the way to applications
such as efficient and ultrabroadband emitters of terahertz electromagnetic
radiation. So far, predominantly standard ferromagnetic materials have been
exploited. Here, by introducing a suitable figure of merit, we systematically
compare the strength of terahertz emission from X/Pt bilayers with X being a
complex ferro-, ferri- and antiferromagnetic metal, that is, dysprosium cobalt
(DyCo$_5$), gadolinium iron (Gd$_{24}$Fe$_{76}$), Magnetite (Fe$_3$O$_4$) and
iron rhodium (FeRh). We find that the performance in terms of spin-current
generation not only depends on the spin polarization of the magnet's conduction
electrons but also on the specific interface conditions, thereby suggesting
terahertz emission spectroscopy to be a highly surface-sensitive technique. In
general, our results are relevant for all applications that rely on the optical
generation of ultrafast spin currents in spintronic metallic multilayers."  2017-05-31  "['Seifert', 'Martens', 'Günther', 'Schoen', 'Radu', 'Chen', 'Lucas', 'Ramos', 'Aguirre', 'Algarabel', 'Anadón', 'Körner', 'Walowski', 'Back', 'Ibarra', 'Morellón', 'Saitoh', 'Wolf', 'Song', 'Uchida', 'Münzenberg', 'Radu', 'Kampfrath']"
1705.11072 "Doping dependence of charge order in electron-doped cuprate
  superconductors" cond-mat.supr-con "In the recent studies of the unconventional physics in cuprate
superconductors, one of the central issues is the interplay between charge
order and superconductivity. Here the mechanism of the charge-order formation
in the electron-doped cuprate superconductors is investigated based on the t-J
model. The experimentally observed momentum dependence of the electron
quasiparticle scattering rate is qualitatively reproduced, where the scattering
rate is highly anisotropic in momentum space, and is intriguingly related to
the charge-order gap. Although the scattering strength appears to be weakest at
the hot spots, the scattering in the antinodal region is stronger than that in
the nodal region, which leads to the original electron Fermi surface is broken
up into the Fermi pockets and their coexistence with the Fermi arcs located
around the nodal region. In particular, this electron Fermi surface instability
drives the charge-order correlation, with the charge-order wave vector that
matches well with the wave vector connecting the hot spots, as the charge-order
correlation in the hole-doped counterparts. However, in a striking contrast to
the hole-doped case, the charge-order wave vector in the electron-doped side
increases in magnitude with the electron doping. The theory also shows the
existence of a quantitative link between the single-electron fermiology and the
collective response of the electron density."  2017-05-31  "['Mou', 'Feng']"
1705.11100 "Effects of nonmagnetic disorder on the energy of Yu-Shiba-Rusinov states" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.supr-con" "We study the sensitivity of Yu-Shiba-Rusinov states, bound states that form
around magnetic scatterers in superconductors, to the presence of nonmagnetic
disorder in both two and three dimensional systems. We formulate a scattering
approach to this problem and reduce the effects of disorder to two
contributions: disorder-induced normal reflection and a random phase of the
amplitude for Andreev reflection. We find that both of these are small even for
moderate amounts of disorder. In the dirty limit in which the disorder-induced
mean free path is smaller than the superconducting coherence length, the
variance of the energy of the Yu-Shiba-Rusinov state remains small in the ratio
of the Fermi wavelength and the mean free path. This effect is more pronounced
in three dimensions, where only impurities within a few Fermi wavelengths of
the magnetic scatterer contribute. In two dimensions the energy variance is
larger by a logarithmic factor because impurities contribute up to a distance
of the order of the superconducting coherence length."  2017-05-31  "['Kiendl', 'von Oppen', 'Brouwer']"
1705.11101 "Topological lattice using multi-frequency radiation" cond-mat.quant-gas "We describe a novel technique for creating an artificial magnetic field for
ultra-cold atoms using a periodically pulsed pair of counter propagating Raman
lasers that drive transitions between a pair of internal atomic spin states: a
multi-frequency coupling term. In conjunction with a magnetic field gradient,
this dynamically generates a rectangular lattice with a non-staggered magnetic
flux. For a wide range of parameters, the resulting Bloch bands have
non-trivial topology, reminiscent of Landau levels, as quantified by their
Chern numbers."  2017-05-31  "['Andrijauskas', 'Spielman', 'Juzeliunas']"
1705.11112 "Layered semiconductor devices with water top-gates: High on-off ratio
  field-effect transistors and aqueous sensors" cond-mat.mes-hall "Layered semiconductors show promise as channel materials for field-effect
transistors (FETs). Usually, such devices incorporate solid back or top gate
dielectrics. Here, we explore de-ionized (DI) water as a solution top gate for
field-effect switching of layered semiconductors including SnS2, MoS2, and
black phosphorus. The DI water gate is easily fabricated, can sustain rapid
bias changes, and its efficient coupling to layered materials provides high
on-off current ratios, a near-ideal sub-threshold swing, and enhanced
shortchannel behavior even for FETs with thick, bulk-like channels. Screening
by the high-k solution gate eliminates hysteresis due to surface and interface
trap states and substantially enhances the field-effect mobility. The onset of
water electrolysis sets the ultimate limit to DI water gating at large negative
gate bias. Measurements in this regime show promise for aqueous sensing,
demonstrated here by the amperometric detection of glucose in aqueous solution.
DI water gating of layered semiconductors can be harnessed in research on novel
materials and devices, and it may with further development find broad
applications in microelectronics and sensing."  2017-05-31  "['Huang', 'Sutter', 'Sutter']"
1705.11117 "An On/Off Berry Phase Switch in Circular Graphene Resonators" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci quant-ph" "The phase of a quantum state may not return to its original value after the
system's parameters cycle around a closed path; instead, the wavefunction may
acquire a measurable phase difference called the Berry phase. Berry phases
typically have been accessed through interference experiments. Here, we
demonstrate an unusual Berry-phase-induced spectroscopic feature: a sudden and
large increase in the energy of angular-momentum states in circular graphene
p-n junction resonators when a small critical magnetic field is reached. This
behavior results from turning on a $\pi$-Berry phase associated with the
topological properties of Dirac fermions in graphene. The Berry phase can be
switched on and off with small magnetic field changes on the order of 10 mT,
potentially enabling a variety of optoelectronic graphene device applications." 10.1126/science.aal0212 2017-05-31  "['Ghahari', 'Walkup', 'Gutiérrez', 'Rodriguez-Nieva', 'Zhao', 'Wyrick', 'Natterer', 'Cullen', 'Watanabe', 'Taniguchi', 'Levitov', 'Zhitenev', 'Stroscio']"
1705.11118 "Vacuum induced Aulter-Townes splitting in a superconducting artificial
  atom" "cond-mat.supr-con quant-ph" "We study experimentally a vacuum induced Aulter-Townes doublet in a
superconducting three-level artificial atom strongly coupled to a coplanar
waveguide resonator and simultaneously to a transmission line. The
Aulter-Townes splitting is observed in the reflection spectrum of the
three-level atom when the transition between two excited states is resonant
with the resonator. By varying an amplitude of the driving field applied to the
resonator, we observe quantum-to-classical transition of the Aulter-Townes
splitting. Our results may pave the way for the control of microwaves by single
photons."  2017-05-31  "['Peng', 'Ding', 'Zhou', 'Ying', 'Wang', 'Zhou', 'Kuang', 'Liu', 'Astfiev', 'Tsai']"
1705.11143 "Flavor and topological current correlators in parity-invariant
  three-dimensional QED" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el hep-lat" "We use lattice regularization to study the flow of the flavor-triplet fermion
current central charge $C^f_J$ from its free field value in the ultraviolet
limit to its conformal value in the infrared limit of the parity-invariant
three-dimensional QED with two flavors of two-component fermions. The
dependence of $C^f_J$ on the scale is weak with a tendency to be below the free
field value at intermediate distances. Our numerical data suggests that the
flavor-triplet fermion current and the topological current correlators become
degenerate within numerical errors in the infra-red limit, thereby supporting
an enhanced O(4) symmetry predicted by strong self-duality. Further, we
demonstrate that fermion dynamics is necessary for the scale-invariant behavior
of parity-invariant three-dimensional QED by showing that the pure gauge theory
with non-compact gauge action has non-zero bilinear condensate."  2017-05-31  "['Karthik', 'Narayanan']"
1705.11145 "Long-range spin-coherence in a strongly-coupled all electronic
  dot-cavity system" cond-mat.mes-hall "We present a theoretical analysis of spin-coherent electronic transport
across a mesoscopic dot-cavity system. Such spin-coherent transport has been
recently demonstrated in an experiment with a dot-cavity hybrid implemented in
a high-mobility two-dimensional electron gas [Phys. Rev. Lett. 115, 166603
(2015)] and its spectroscopic signatures have been interpreted in terms of a
competition between Kondo-type dot-lead and molecular-type dot-cavity
singlet-formation. Our analysis brings forward all the transport features
observed in the experiments and supports the claim that a spin-coherent
molecular singlet forms across the full extent of the dot-cavity device. Our
model analysis includes: i) a single-particle numerical investigation of the 2D
geometry, its quantum-coral type eigenstates and associated spectroscopic
transport features, ii) the derivation of an effective interacting model based
on the observations of the numerical and experimental studies, and iii) the
prediction of transport characteristics through the device using a combination
of a master-equation approach on top of exact eigenstates of the dot-cavity
system, and an equation- of-motion analysis that includes Kondo physics. The
latter provides additional temperature scaling predictions for the many-body
phase transition between molecular- and Kondo-singlet formation and its
associated transport signatures."  2017-05-31  "['Ferguson', 'Oehri', 'Rössler', 'Ihn', 'Ensslin', 'Blatter', 'Zilberberg']"
1705.11162 "Low-energy modes of spin-imbalanced Fermi gases in BCS phase" "cond-mat.quant-gas nucl-th" "The low-energy modes of a spin-imbalanced superfluid Fermi gas in the
Bardeen-Cooper-Schrieffer (BCS) side are studied. The gas is assumed to be
sufficiently dilute so that the pairing of atoms can be considered effective
only in s-wave between fermions of different internal state. The order
parameter at equilibrium is determined by the mean-field approximation, while
the properties of the collective modes are calculated within a Gaussian
approximation for the fluctuations of the order parameter. In particular we
investigate the effects of asymmetry between the populations of the two
different components and of temperature on the frequency and damping of
collective modes. It is found that the temperature does not much affect the
frequency and the damping of the modes, whereas an increase of the imbalance
shifts the frequency toward lower values and enhances the damping sensitively.
Besides the Bogoliubov-Anderson phonons, we observe modes at zero frequency for
finite values of the wave-number. These modes indicate that an instability
develops driving the system toward two separate phases, normal and superfluid."  2017-05-31  "['Matera', 'Wagner']"
1705.11176 "Nanometric pitch in modulated structures of twist-bend nematic liquid
  crystals" cond-mat.soft "The extended Frank elastic energy density is used to investigate the
existence of a stable periodically modulate structure that appears as a ground
state exhibiting a twist-bend molecular arrangement. For an unbounded sample,
we show that the twist-bend nematic phase $N_{TB}$ is characterized by a
heliconical structure with a pitch in the nano-metric range, in agreement with
experimental results. For a sample of finite thickness, we show that the wave
vector of the stable periodic structure depends not only on the elastic
parameters but also on the anchoring energy, easy axis direction, and the
thickness of the sample."  2017-05-31  "['Rosseto', 'de Almeida', 'Zola', 'Barbero', 'Lelidis', 'Evangelista']"
1705.11177 "Tunneling Current Measurement Scheme to Detect Majorana Zero Mode
  Induced Crossed Andreev Reflection" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "We propose a scheme to detect the Majorana zero mode induced crossed Andreev
reflection by measuring tunneling current directly. In this scheme a metallic
ring structure is utilized to separate electron and hole signals. Since the
tunneling electron and the tunneling hole have different wave vectors, the
conditions for them to be constructively coherent in the ring are different. We
find that when we vary the magnetic flux threaded through the ring, we are able
to observe positive and negative current peaks separately."  2017-05-31  "['Fang', 'Schmeltzer', 'Zhu', 'Saxena']"
1705.11189 "Quasiparticle Interference of Surface States in Type-II Weyl Semimetal
  WTe$_2$" cond-mat.str-el "Topological Weyl semimetal (TWS) is a metal, where low energy excitations
behave like Weyl fermions of high-energy physics. It was recently shown that
due to the lower symmetry of condensed matter systems, they can realize two
distinct types of Weyl fermions. The type-I Weyl fermion in a metal is formed
by a linear crossing of two bands at a point in the crystalline momentum space
- Brillouin zone (BZ). The second type TWSs host type-II Weyl points appearing
at the touching points of electron and hole pockets, which is a result of
tilted linear dispersion. The type-II TWS was predicted to exist in several
compounds, including WTe$_2$. Several ARPES studies of WTe$_2$ were reported so
far, having contradictory conclusions on the topological nature of observed
Fermi arcs. In this work, we report the results of spectroscopic imaging with a
scanning tunneling microscope and first principle calculations, establishing a
clear quasiparticle interference features of the surface states of WTe$_2$. Our
work provides a strong evidence for surface state scattering. Although the
surface Fermi arcs are clearly observed, it is still difficult to prove the
existence of predicted Type-II Weyl points in the bulk."  2017-05-31  "['Zhang', 'Wu', 'Zhang', 'Cheong', 'Soluyanov', 'Wu']"
1705.11191 "ELSI: A Unified Software Interface for Kohn-Sham Electronic Structure
  Solvers" "physics.comp-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Solving the electronic structure from a generalized or standard eigenproblem
is often the bottleneck in large scale calculations based on Kohn-Sham
density-functional theory. This problem must be addressed by essentially all
current electronic structure codes, based on similar matrix expressions, and by
high-performance computation. We here present a unified software interface,
ELSI, to access different strategies that address the Kohn-Sham eigenvalue
problem. Currently supported algorithms include the dense generalized
eigensolver library ELPA, the orbital minimization method implemented in
libOMM, and the pole expansion and selected inversion (PEXSI) approach with
lower computational complexity for semilocal density functionals. The ELSI
interface aims to simplify the implementation and optimal use of the different
strategies, by offering (a) a unified software framework designed for the
electronic structure solvers in Kohn-Sham density-functional theory; (b)
reasonable default parameters for a chosen solver; (c) automatic conversion
between input and internal working matrix formats, and in the future (d)
recommendation of the optimal solver depending on the specific problem.
Comparative benchmarks are shown for system sizes up to 11,520 atoms (172,800
basis functions) on distributed memory supercomputing architectures."  2017-05-31  "['Yu', 'Corsetti', 'García', 'Huhn', 'Jacquelin', 'Jia', 'Lange', 'Lin', 'Lu', 'Mi', 'Seifitokaldani', 'Vázquez-Mayagoitia', 'Yang', 'Yang', 'Blum']"
1706.00006 "Extraordinary linear dynamic range in laser-defined functionalized
  graphene photodetectors" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.app-ph" "Graphene-based photodetectors have demonstrated mechanical flexibility, large
operating bandwidth, and broadband spectral response. However, their linear
dynamic range (LDR) is limited by graphene's intrinsichot-carrier dynamics,
which causes deviation from a linear photoresponse at low incident powers. At
the same time, multiplication of hot carriers causes the photoactive region to
be smeared over distances of a few micro-meters, limiting the use of graphene
in high-resolution applications. We present a novel method for engineer-ing
photoactive junctions in FeCl3-intercalated graphene using laser irradiation.
Photocurrent measured at these planar junctions shows an extraordinary linear
response with an LDR value at least 4500 times larger than that of other
graphene devices (44 dB) while maintaining high stability against environmental
contamination without the need for encapsulation. The observed photoresponse is
purely photovoltaic, demonstrating complete quenching of hot-carrier effects.
These results pave the way toward the design of ultrathin photode-tectors with
unprecedented LDR for high-definition imaging and sensing." 10.1126/sciadv.1602617 2017-05-31  "['De Sanctis', 'Jones', 'Wehenkel', 'Bezares', 'Koppens', 'Craciun', 'Russo']"
1706.00008 "Pairing from dynamically screened Coulomb repulsion in bismuth" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "Recently, Prakash et. al. have discovered bulk superconductivity in single
crystals of bismuth, which is a semi metal with extremely low carrier density.
At such low density, we argue that conventional electron-phonon coupling is too
weak to be responsible for the binding of electrons into Cooper pairs. We study
a dynamically screened Coulomb interaction with effective attraction generated
on the scale of the collective plasma modes. We model the electronic states in
bismuth to include three Dirac pockets with high velocity and one hole pocket
with a significantly smaller velocity. We find that at weak coupling the
presence of a hole pocket greatly enhances the transition temperature. We show
that this enhancement is mainly due to the static screening of the hole band
and not due to the acoustic plasma mode. As a byproduct of studying
superconductivity in a Dirac semi metal we find that Anderson's theorem is
violated in the relativistic limit."  2017-05-31  "['Ruhman', 'Lee']"
1706.00016 "Scale anomaly of a Lifshitz scalar: a universal quantum phase transition
  to discrete scale invariance" "hep-th cond-mat.mes-hall math-ph math.MP quant-ph" "We demonstrate the existence of a universal transition from a continuous
scale invariant phase to a discrete scale invariant phase for a class of
one-dimensional quantum systems with anisotropic scaling symmetry between space
and time. These systems describe a Lifshitz scalar interacting with a
background potential. The transition occurs at a critical coupling
$\lambda_{c}$ corresponding to a strongly attractive potential."  2017-05-31  "['Brattan', 'Ovdat', 'Akkermans']"
1706.00020 "Entanglement and quantum transport in integrable systems" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el hep-th quant-ph" "Understanding the entanglement structure of out-of-equilibrium many-body
systems is a challenging yet revealing task. Here we investigate the
entanglement dynamics after an inhomogeneous quench in integrable systems. This
is the prototypical setup for studying quantum transport, and it consists in
the sudden junction of two macroscopically different states. By exploiting the
recently developed integrable hydrodynamic approach and the quasiparticle
picture for the entanglement dynamics, we conjecture a formula for the
entanglement production rate after joining two semi-infinite reservoirs, as
well as the steady-state entanglement entropy of a finite subregion. We show
that both quantities are determined by the quasiparticles created in the Non
Equilibrium steady State (NESS) appearing at large times at the interface
between the two reservoirs. Specifically, the steady-state entropy coincides
with the thermodynamic entropy of the NESS, whereas the entropy production rate
reflects its spreading into the bulk of the two reservoirs. Our results are
numerically corroborated using tDMRG simulations in the paradigmatic XXZ
spin-$1/2$ chain."  2017-05-31  ['Alba']
1706.00022 "Localization-protected order in spin chains with non-Abelian discrete
  symmetries" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el" "We study the non-equilibrium phase structure of the three-state random
quantum Potts model in one dimension. This spin chain is characterized by a
non-Abelian $D_3$ symmetry recently argued to be incompatible with the
existence of a symmetry-preserving many-body localized (MBL) phase. Using exact
diagonalization and a finite-size scaling analysis, we find that the model
supports two distinct broken-symmetry MBL phases at strong disorder that either
break the ${\mathbb{Z}_3}$ clock symmetry or a ${\mathbb{Z}_2}$ chiral
symmetry. In a dual formulation, our results indicate the existence of a stable
finite-temperature topological phase with MBL-protected parafermionic end zero
modes. While we find a thermal symmetry-preserving regime for weak disorder,
scaling analysis at strong disorder points to an infinite-randomness critical
point between two distinct broken-symmetry MBL phases."  2017-05-31  "['Friedman', 'Vasseur', 'Potter', 'Parameswaran']"
1706.00031 "From few- to many-body physics in one-dimensional Fermi systems: one-
  and two-body density matrices, and particle-partition entanglement" "cond-mat.quant-gas hep-lat nucl-th" "We study the evolution from few- to many-body physics of fermionic systems in
one spatial dimension with attractive pairwise interactions. We determine the
detailed form of the momentum distribution, the structure of the one-body
density matrix, and the pairing properties encoded in the two-body density
matrix. From the low- and high-momentum scaling behavior of the single-particle
momentum distribution we estimate the speed of sound and Tan's contact,
respectively. Both quantities are found to be in agreement with previous
calculations. Based on our calculations of the one-body density matrices, we
also present results for the particle-partition entanglement entropy, for which
we find a logarithmic dependence on the total particle number."  2017-05-31  "['Rammelmüller', 'Porter', 'Braun', 'Drut']"
1706.00032 "Modeling free anyons at the bosonic and fermionic ends" cond-mat.stat-mech "The topology of two-dimensional movement allows for existing of anyons --
particles obeying statistics intermediate between that of bosons and fermions.
In this article, the functional form of the occupation numbers of free anyons
is suggested as a modification of the Gibbs factor in the Bose and Fermi
statistics. The proposed expressions are studied in the bosonic and fermionic
limits. The obtained virial coefficients coincide with those of free anyons up
to the fourth and fifth virial coefficients (the proposed approach can be
extended for higher ones as well) and up to the second order in the anyonic
parameter. The effective excitation spectrum corresponding to anyons is
calculated."  2017-05-31  "['Vasiuta', 'Rovenchak']"
1706.00055 "Carrier-envelope phase effects in graphene" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "We numerically study the interaction of a terahertz pulse with monolayer
graphene. We observe that the electron momentum density is affected by the
carrier-envelope phase (CEP) of the single to few-cycle terahertz laser pulse
that induces the electron dynamics. In particular, we see strong asymmetric
electron momentum distributions for non-zero values of the CEP. We explain the
origin of the asymmetry within the adiabatic-impulse model by finding
conditions to reach minimal adiabatic gap between the valence band and the
conduction band. We discuss how these conditions and the interference pattern,
emanating from successive non-adiabatic transitions at this minimal gap, affect
the electron momentum density and how they are modified by the CEP. This opens
the door to control fundamental time-dependent electron dynamics in the
tunneling regime in Dirac materials. Also, this suggests a way to measure the
CEP of a terahertz laser pulse when it interacts with condensed matter systems."  2017-05-31  "['Lefebvre', 'Gagnon', 'Fillion-Gourdeau', 'MacLean']"
1706.00059 "Observation of Photonic Topological Valley-Hall Edge States" "physics.optics cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.quant-gas" "We experimentally demonstrate topological edge states arising from the
valley-Hall effect in twodimensional honeycomb photonic lattices with broken
inversion symmetry. We break inversion symmetry by detuning the refractive
indices of the two honeycomb sublattices, giving rise to a boron nitride-like
band structure. The edge states therefore exist along the domain walls between
regions of opposite valley Chern numbers. We probe both the armchair and
zig-zag domain walls and show that the former become gapped for any detuning,
whereas the latter remain ungapped until a cutoff is reached. The valley-Hall
effect provides a new mechanism for the realization of time-reversal invariant
photonic topological insulators."  2017-05-31  "['Noh', 'Huang', 'Chen', 'Rechtsman']"
1706.00073 "Magnetic Flux Tailoring through Lenz Lenses in Toroidal Diamond Indenter
  Cells: A New Pathway to High Pressure Nuclear Magnetic Resonance" "physics.ins-det cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "A new pathway to nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy in high pressure
diamond anvil cells is introduced, using inductively coupled broadband passive
electro-magnetic lenses to locally amplify the magnetic flux at the isolated
sample, leading to an increase in sensitivity. The lenses are adopted for the
geometrical restrictions imposed by a toroidal diamond indenter cell, and yield
high signal-to-noise ratios at pressures as high as 72 GPa, at initial sample
volumes of only 230 pl. The corresponding levels of detection, LODt, are found
to be up to four orders of magnitude lower compared to formerly used solenoidal
micro-coils in diamond anvil cells, as shown by Proton-NMR measurements on
paraffin oil. This approach opens up the field of ultra-high pressure sciences
for one of the most versatile spectroscopic methods available in a pressure
range unprecedended up to now."  2017-05-24  "['Meier', 'Wang', 'Mager', 'Korvink', 'Petigirard', 'Dubrovinsky']"
1706.00097 "In defense of Tsallis' original probability distribution" cond-mat.stat-mech "Tsallis' pioneer q-probability distribution $P_i=\frac
{[1+\beta(1-q)U_i]^{\frac {1} {q-1}}} {Z}$, $Z=\sum\limits_{i=1}^n
[1+\beta(1-q)U_i]^{\frac {1} {q-1}}$ [J. of Stat. Phys., {\bf 52} (1988) 479]
has been recently attacked in arXiv:1705.01752, in a Reply to our
arXiv:1704.07493 publication. We show here that such an attack is groundless."  2017-05-31  "['Plastino', 'Rocca']"
1706.00104 "Spin-Seebeck effect and spin polarization in a multiple quantum dot
  molecule" cond-mat.mes-hall "In this work, we study the conductance and the thermoelectric properties of a
quantum dot embedded between two metallic leads with a side-coupled triple
quantum dot molecule under a magnetic field. We focus on the spin polarization
and thermoelectric quantities. Our results show the possibility of design an
efficient spin filter device besides a noticeable enhancement of the Seebeck
coefficient driven by the asymmetry in the quantum dots energy levels and a
tunable pure spin Seebeck effect is obtained. This behavior also holds in the
interacting case, where a pure spin Seebeck effect can be obtained for fixed
values of the embedded quantum dot energy level. Our findings could lead to the
implementation of a new pure spin energy conversion and capable spin filter
devices working with weak magnetic fields."  2017-05-31  "['Ramos-Andrade', 'Peña', 'González', 'Ávalos-Ovando', 'Orellana']"
1706.00132 "Leakage-free electrolytes with different conductivity for non-volatile
  memory device utilizing insulator/metal ferromagnet transition of SrCoOx" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The electrochemical switching of SrCoOx-based non-volatile memory with
thin-film-transistor structure was examined by using liquid-leakage-free
electrolytes with different conductivity (s) as the gate insulator. We first
examined leakage-free water, which is incorporated in the amorphous (a-) 12CaO
7Al2O3 film with nanoporous structure (CAN), but the electrochemical
oxidation/reduction of SrCoOx layer required the application of high gate
voltage (Vg) up to 20 V for a very long retention-time (t) 40 minutes,
primarily due to the low s (2.0 x 10-8 S cm-1 at RT) of leakage-free water.We
then controlled the s of leakage-free electrolyte, infiltrated in the a-NaxTaO3
film with nanopillar array structure, from 8.0 x 10-8 S cm-1 to 2.5 x 10-6 S
cm-1 at RT by changing the x = 0.01-1.0. As the result, the t, required for the
metallization of SrCoOx layer under small Vg = -3 V, becomes two orders of
magnitude shorter with increase of the s of the a-NaxTaO3 leakage-free
electrolyte. These results indicate that the ion migration in the leakage-free
electrolyte is the rate-determining step for the electrochemical switching,
compared to the other electrochemical process, and the high s of the
leakage-free electrolyte is the key factor for the development of the
non-volatile SrCoOx-based electro-magnetic phase switching device."  2017-05-31  "['Katase', 'Suzuki', 'Ohta']"
1706.00137 "Renormalization group and normal form theory" cond-mat.stat-mech "The results of the renormalization group are commonly advertised as the
existence of power law singularities near critical points. Logarithmic and
exponential corrections are seen as special cases and dealt with on a
case-by-case basis. We propose to systematize the analysis of singularities in
the renormalization group using perturbative normal form theory. Classification
of all such singularities in this unified framework generates a systematic
machinery to perform scaling collapses. We show that this procedure leads to a
better handling of the singularity even in the classic case of the 4-d Ising
model."  2017-05-31  "['Raju', 'Clement', 'Hayden', 'Kent-Dobias', 'Liarte', 'Rocklin', 'Sethna']"
1706.00143 "Interactions and scattering of quantum vortices in a polariton
  condensate" "cond-mat.quant-gas nlin.PS" "We unveil the interaction dynamics of vortices in an exciton-polariton
condensate formed in a two-dimensional semiconductor microcavity. By imprinting
vortex pairs, via a higher-order Laguerre-Gauss optical pumping beam, we are
able to track the ensuing dynamics and monitor their full spatio-temporal
evolution, revealing the important connections between interactions, phase and
density gradients. As the nonlinearity of the system is increased, we not only
observe the standard induced same-charge vortex rotation, but also an effective
attraction between vortices that leads to novel scattering events. Theoretical
considerations reveal that the unusual attraction leading to scattering is
induced by the background field supporting the vortices. We also consider
composite states with same- and opposite-charge vortices being imprinted in
different spinorial components, showing that the mutually-induced rotations
preserve the full-vortices but split the spin-vortices into four
baby-skyrmions."  2017-05-31  "['Dominici', 'Carretero-Gonzalez', 'Cuevas-Maraver', 'Gianfrate', 'Rodrigues', 'Frantzeskakis', 'Kevrekidis', 'Lerario', 'Ballarini', 'De Giorgi', 'Gigli', 'Sanvitto']"
1706.00154 "Dynamic oscillatory cluster ordering of self-propelled droplets" cond-mat.soft "We report here a peculiar dynamically ordered state of clustering droplets of
a mixture of organic solvent. There droplets are driven by the solutal
Marangoni effect on the surface of aqueous surfactant solution. They form
temporal ring clusters which start collapsing immediately after its formation.
This process is repeated for more than several hours with the period of 5--20
minutes. We propose an inhomogeneous force model to phenomenologically
understand the basic mechanism of this dynamics, where the forces acting on
each particle are controlled differently. This droplet system offers a simple,
non-biological experimental model for the study of complex dynamical states
realized by a group of self-propelled particles."  2017-05-31  "['Tanaka', 'Kano']"
1706.00169 "Revealing evolving affinity between Coulombic reversibility and
  hysteretic Li-Si phase transformations" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Nano-structured silicon anodes are attractive alternatives to graphite in
Li-ion batteries. Despite recent remarkable progresses in numerous Si-C
composites, the commercialisation with significance is still limited. One of
the most critical issues remained to understand is fundamentals on Li-Si
Coulombic efficiency, namely, CE. Particularly, it is key to quantitatively and
qualitatively resolve CE alterations and evolutions by the various Li-Si
structural changes over longer cycling. However, such work is surprisingly
scarce. Here, we provide new findings that iterating the hysteretic
amorphous-crystalline Li-Si phase transformations accumulatively governs CE
evolutions, the manner of which is numerically distinguished from incremental
amorphous Li-Si volume changes. The iterations, usually featured as capacity
degradation factors, can form the most efficient CE profiles over hundreds of
cycles, i.e. minimising accumulative irreversible Li consumption, among the
given Li-Si reaction sequences. Combined with atomistic probing methodologies,
we show that the iteration drastically alters electrochemical and structural
characteristics, which is synchronised with the CE behaviours."  2017-06-01  "['Ogata', 'Jeon', 'Ko', 'Jung', 'Kim', 'Ito', 'Kubo', 'Takei', 'Saito', 'Cho', 'Park', 'Jang', 'Kim', 'Kim', 'Kim', 'Koh', 'Uosaki', 'Doo', 'Hwang', 'Han']"
1706.00172 "Unraveling the orientation of phosphors doped in organic semiconducting
  layers" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Emitting dipole orientation (EDO) is an important issue of emitting materials
in organic light-emitting diodes (OLEDs) for an increase of outcoupling
efficiency of light. The origin of preferred orientation of emitting dipole of
spherically shaped iridium-based heteroleptic phosphorescent dyes doped in
organic layers is revealed by simulation of vacuum deposition using molecular
dynamics (MD) along with quantum mechanical (QM) characterization of the
phosphors for a direct comparison with experimental observations of EDO.
Consideration of both the electronic transitions in a molecular frame and the
orientation of the molecules interacting with the environment at the
vacuum/molecular film interface allows quantitative analyses of the EDO
depending on host molecules and dopant structures. Interaction between the
phosphor and nearest host molecules on the surface, minimizing the non-bonding
energy determines the molecular alignment during the vacuum deposition.
Parallel alignment of the main cyclometalating ligands in the molecular complex
due to host interactions rather than the ancillary ligand orienting to vacuum
leads to the horizontal EDO."  2017-06-01  "['Moon', 'Kim', 'Kim']"
1706.00179 "Machine Learning Unifies the Modelling of Materials and Molecules" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.chem-ph" "Determining the stability of molecules and condensed phases is the
cornerstone of atomistic modelling, underpinning our understanding of chemical
and materials properties and transformations. Here we show that a machine
learning model, based on a local description of chemical environments and
Bayesian statistical learning, provides a unified framework to predict
atomic-scale properties. It captures the quantum mechanical effects governing
the complex surface reconstructions of silicon, predicts the stability of
different classes of molecules with chemical accuracy, and distinguishes active
and inactive protein ligands with more than 99% reliability. The universality
and the systematic nature of our framework provides new insight into the
potential energy surface of materials and molecules."  2017-06-01  "['Bartok', 'De', 'Poelking', 'Bernstein', 'Kermode', 'Csanyi', 'Ceriotti']"
1706.00185 "Acceleration and suppression of BAR-domain-induced tubulation by
  addition of small membrane inclusions of isotropic spontaneous curvatures" "cond-mat.soft physics.bio-ph" "The membrane tubulation induced by Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs (BAR) superfamily
proteins is investigated by using coarse-grained meshless membrane simulations.
The tubulation is enhanced by laterally isotropic membrane inclusions that
generate the same sign of spontaneous curvature as the adsorbed BAR proteins.
The inclusions are concentrated in the tubules and reduce the bending energy of
the tip of the tubules. On the other hand, the inclusions with an opposite
curvature suppress the tubulation by percolated-network formation at a high BAR
density while they induce a spherical membrane bud at a low BAR density. When
equal amounts of the two types of inclusions (with positive and negative
curvatures) are added, their effects cancel each other for the first short
period but later the tubulation is slowly accelerated. A positive surface
tension suppresses the tubulation."  2017-06-01  ['Noguchi']
1706.00192 "Materials Screening for the Discovery of New Half-Heuslers: Machine
  Learning versus Ab Initio Methods" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Machine learning (ML) is increasingly becoming a helpful tool in the search
for novel functional compounds. Here we use classification via random forests
to predict the stability of half-Heusler (HH) compounds, using only
experimentally reported compounds as a training set. Cross-validation yields an
excellent agreement between the fraction of compounds classified as stable and
the actual fraction of truly stable compounds in the ICSD. The ML model is then
employed to screen 71,178 different 1:1:1 compositions, yielding 481 likely
stable candidates. The predicted stability of HH compounds from three previous
high throughput ab initio studies is critically analyzed from the perspective
of the alternative ML approach. The incomplete consistency among the three
separate ab initio studies and between them and the ML predictions suggests
that additional factors beyond those considered by ab initio phase stability
calculations might be determinant to the stability of the compounds. Such
factors can include configurational entropies and quasiharmonic contributions."  2017-06-01  "['Legrain', 'Carrete', 'van Roekeghem', 'Madsen', 'Mingo']"
1706.00200 "Prediction of triple point fermions in simple half-Heusler topological
  insulators" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We predict the existence of triple point fermions in the band structure of
several half-Heusler topological insulators by $ab~initio$ calculations and the
Kane model. We find that many half-Heusler compounds exhibit multiple triple
points along four independent $C_3$ axes, through which the doubly degenerate
conduction bands and the nondegenerate valence band cross each other linearly
nearby the Fermi energy. When projected from the bulk to the (111) surface,
most of these triple points are located far away from the surface
$\bar{\Gamma}$ point, as distinct from previously reported triple point fermion
candidates. These isolated triple points give rise to Fermi arcs on the
surface, that can be readily detected by photoemission spectroscopy or scanning
tunneling spectroscopy."  2017-06-01  "['Yang', 'Yu', 'Parkin', 'Felser', 'Liu', 'Yan']"
1706.00214 "The Forest Fire Model Revisited" cond-mat.stat-mech "Since Self-Organised Criticality (SOC) was introduced in the 1987 both the
nature of the self-organisation and of the criticality remains controversial.
Recent observations on rain precipitation and on brain activity suggest that
real systems may dynamically wander about in the vicinity of criticality rather
than tune to a critical point. We use computer simulations to study the
Drossel-Schwable forest-fire model of SOC and find that it exhibits behaviour
similar to that found for rain and brain activity. In particular we analyse the
residence time for different densities of trees and perform finite size scaling
analysis of the with of the distribution of residence times. We conclude that
despite of the long known fact that this model does not exhibit exact scaling
and power laws its behaviour may exactly for that be very relevant to real
physical systems."  2017-06-01  "['Palmieri', 'Jensen']"
1706.00228 "Nonlinear transport by vortex tangles in cuprate high-temperature
  superconductors" cond-mat.supr-con "A unified model of vortex tangles is proposed to describe unconventional
transport in cuprate high-temperature superconductors, which not only captures
the fast vortices scenario at low density, but also predicts a novel mechanism
of core-core collisions in dense vortex fluid regime. The theory clarifies the
nature of vortex fluctuations being the quantum fluctuations of holes and then
resolves a discrepancy of two orders of magnitude of Anderson's damping model
$\hbar n_v$, with right prediction of the nonlinear field dependence of the
resistivity $\rho=\rho_n(B+B_T)/(B_0+B+B_T)$ and the Nernst effect, validated
by data of several samples. Consequently, Anderson's vortex tangles concept and
phase fluctuation scenario of pseudogap are verified quantitatively."  2017-06-01  "['Li', 'She']"
1706.00239 "Microanalysis of single-layer hexagonal boron nitride islands on Ir(111)" cond-mat.mes-hall "Large hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) single-layer islands of high crystalline
quality were grown on Ir(111) via chemical vapor deposition (CVD) and have been
studied with low-energy electron microscopy (LEEM). Two types of hBN islands
have been observed that structurally differ in their shape and orientation with
respect to iridium, where the former greatly depends on the iridium step
morphology. Photoemission electron microscopy (PEEM) and IV-LEEM spectroscopy
revealed that the two island types also exhibit different work functions and
bindings to iridium, which provides an explanation for differences in their
shape and growth modes. In addition, various temperatures were used for the CVD
synthesis of hBN, and it was found that at temperatures higher than ~950
{\deg}C boron atoms, originating either from decomposed borazine molecules or
disintegrated hBN islands, can form additional compact reconstructed regions.
The presented results are important for advancement in synthesis of
high-quality hBN and other boron-based layered materials, and could therefore
expedite their technological implementation." 10.1016/j.apsusc.2017.05.155 2017-06-01  "['Petrović', 'Hagemann', 'Hoegen', 'Heringdorf']"
1706.00249 "Doping-induced spin-orbit splitting in Bi-doped ZnO nanowires" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Our predictions, based on density-functional calculations, reveal that
surface doping of ZnO nanowires with Bi leads to a linear-in-$k$ splitting of
the conduction-band states, through spin-orbit interaction, due to the lowering
of the symmetry in the presence of the dopant. This finding implies that spin
polarization of the conduction electrons in Bi-doped ZnO nanowires could be
controlled with applied electric (as opposed to magnetic) fields, making them
candidate materials for spin-orbitronic applications. Our findings also show
that the degree of spin splitting could be tuned by adjusting the dopant
concentration. Defect calculations and ab initio molecular dynamics simulations
indicate that stable doping configurations exhibiting the foregoing
linear-in-$k$ splitting could be realized under reasonable thermodynamic
conditions." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.155404 2017-06-01  "['Aras', 'Güler-Kılıç', 'Kılıç']"
1706.00259 "Electronic and magnetic properties of low dimensional system Co2TeO3Cl2" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.str-el" "The electronic and magnetic properties of transition metal oxyhalide compound
Co2TeO3Cl2 is investigated using first principle calculations within the
framework of density functional theory. In order to find underlying spin
lattice of this compound, various hopping integrals and exchange interactions
are calculated. The calculations reveal that the dominant inter-chain and
intra-chain interactions are in ab plane. The exchange path is visualised by
Wannier function plotting. The nearest neighbour and next nearest neighbour
exchange interactions are antiferromagnetic, making the system frustrated in
low dimension. The importance of spin orbit coupling in this compound is also
investigated. The spin quantization axis is favoured along the crystallographic
b direction."  2017-06-01  ['Chakraborty']
1706.00277 "Anomalous Magnetism for Dirac Electrons in Two Dimensional Rashba
  Systems" cond-mat.str-el "Spin-spin correlation function response in the low electronic density regime
and externally applied electrical field is evaluated for 2D metallic crystals
under Rashba-type coupling, fixed number of particles and two fold energy band
structure. Intrinsic Zeeman-like effect on electron spin polarization, density
of states and transverse magnetic susceptibility are analyzed in the limit of
zero temperature."  2017-06-01  ['Vivas']
1706.00297 "Spin-orbit coupling and transport of strongly correlated two-dimensional
  systems" cond-mat.str-el "Measuring the magnetoresistance (MR) of ultraclean {\it GaAs} two-dimensional
holes in a large $r_s$ range of 20-50, two striking behaviors in relation to
the spin-orbit coupling (SOC) emerge in response to strong electron-electron
interaction. First, in exact correspondence to the zero-field
metal-to-insulator transition (MIT), the sign of the MR switches from being
positive in the metallic regime to being negative in the insulating regime when
the carrier density crosses the critical density $p_c$ of MIT ($r_s\sim 39$).
Second, as the SOC-driven correction $\Delta\rho$ to the MR decreases with
reducing carrier density (or the in-plane wave vector), it exhibits an upturn
in the close proximity just above $p_c$ where $r_s$ is beyond 30, indicating a
substantially enhanced SOC effect. This peculiar behavior echoes with a trend
of delocalization long suspected for the SOC-interaction interplay. Meanwhile,
for $p<p_c$ or $r_s>40$, in contrast to the common belief that a magnet field
enhances Wigner crystallization, the negative MR is likely linked to enhanced
interaction."  2017-06-01  "['Huang', 'Pfeiffer', 'West']"
1706.00305 "Pressure Profile Calculation with Mesh Ewald Methods" cond-mat.soft "The importance of calculating pressure profiles across liquid interfaces is
increasingly gaining recognition, and efficient methods for the calculation of
long-range contributions are fundamental in addressing systems with a large
number of charges. Here, we show how to compute the local pressure contribution
for mesh-based Ewald methods, retaining the typical N log N scaling as a
function of the lattice nodes N. This is a considerable improvement on existing
methods, which include approximating the electrostatic contribution using a
large cut-off and the, much slower, Ewald calculation. As an application, we
calculate the contribution to the pressure profile across the water/vapour
interface, coming from different molecular layers, both including and removing
the effect of thermal capillary waves. We compare the total pressure profile
with the one obtained using the cutoff approximation for the calculation of the
stresses, showing that the stress distribution obtained by the Harasima and
Irving-Kirkwood are quite similar and shifted with respect to each other at
most 0.05~nm." 10.1021/acs.jctc.6b00576 2017-06-01  "['Sega', 'Fábián', 'Jedlovszky']"
1706.00312 "Simplicity condition and boundary-bulk duality" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el gr-qc" "In the first-order formulation, general relativity could be formally viewed
as the topological $BF$ theory with a specific constraint, the Plebanski
constraint. $BF$ theory is expected to be the classical limit of the
Crane-Yetter~(CY) topological state sum. In the Euclidean case, the Plebanski
constraint could be lifted in an elegant way to a quantum version in the CY
state sum, called the simplicity condition. The constrained state sum is known
as the Barrett-Crane~(BC) model. In this note we investigate this condition
from the topological field theory side. Since the condition is in fact imposed
on the faces, we want to understand it from the viewpoint of the surface
theory. Essentially this condition could be thought of as resulting from the
boundary-bulk dualtiy, or more precisely from the recent ""bulk=center""
proposal. In the language of topological phases, it corresponds to the diagonal
anyon condensation, with the BC model being the condensed phase.
  The CY state sum, and correspondingly the BC model, is usually constructed
with a modular tensor category~(MTC) from representations of a quantum group at
roots of unity. The category of representations of quantum group and that of
modules of the corresponding affine Lie algebra are known to be equivalent as
MTCs. This equivalence, together with the simplicity condition in the BC model,
guarantees the construction of a full 2d rational conformal field theory
through the Fuchs-Runkel-Schweigert formalism. We thus obtain a full-fledged 4d
quantum geometry, which we name as ""stringy quantum geometry"". Some attracting
features of such a new geometry are briefly discussed."  2017-06-01  ['Zuo']
1706.00314 "FeSe(en)0.3 - Separated FeSe layers with stripe-type crystal structure
  by intercalation of neutral spacer molecules" cond-mat.supr-con "Solvothermal intercalation of ethylenediamine molecules into FeSe separates
the layers by 1078 pm and creates a different stacking. FeSe(en)0.3 is not
superconducting although each layer exhibits the stripe-type crystal structure
and the Fermi surface topology of superconducting FeSe. FeSe(en)0.3 requires
electron-doping for high-Tc similar to monolayers of FeSe@SrTiO3, whose much
higher Tc may arise from the proximity of the oxide surface."  2017-06-01  "['Stahl', 'Johrendt']"
1706.00325 "Low resistive edge contacts to CVD-grown graphene using a CMOS
  compatible metal" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.app-ph" "The exploitation of the excellent intrinsic electronic properties of graphene
for device applications is hampered by a large contact resistance between the
metal and graphene. The formation of edge contacts rather than top contacts is
one of the most promising solutions for realizing low ohmic contacts. In this
paper the fabrication and characterization of edge contacts to large area
CVD-grown monolayer graphene by means of optical lithography using CMOS
compatible metals, i.e. Nickel and Aluminum is reported. Extraction of the
contact resistance by Transfer Line Method (TLM) as well as the direct
measurement using Kelvin Probe Force Microscopy demonstrates a very low width
specific contact resistance."  2017-06-01  "['Shaygan', 'Otto', 'Sagade', 'Chavarin', 'Bacher', 'Mertin', 'Neumaier']"
1706.00328 "DFT+DMFT study on soft moment magnetism and covalent bonding in
  SrRu$_2$O$_6$" cond-mat.str-el "Dynamical mean-field theory is used to study the three orbital model of the
$d^3$ compound SrRu$_2$O$_6$ both with and without explicitly including the
O-$p$ states. Depending on the size of the Hund's coupling $J$, at low to
intermediate temperatures we find solutions corresponding to Mott or correlated
covalent insulator. The latter can explain the experimentally observed absence
of Curie susceptibility in the paramagnetic phase. At high temperatures a
single phase with smoothly varying properties is observed. SrRu$_2$O$_6$
provides an ideal system to study the competition between the local moment
physics and covalent bonding since both effects are maximized, while spin-orbit
interaction is found to play a minor role."  2017-06-01  "['Hariki', 'Hausoel', 'Sangiovanni', 'Kuneš']"
1706.00332 "Magnetization-control and transfer of spin-polarized Cooper pairs into a
  half-metal manganite" cond-mat.supr-con "The pairing state and critical temperature (T$_c$) of a thin s-wave
superconductor (S) on two or more ferromagnets (F) are controllable through the
magnetization-alignment of the F layers. Magnetization misalignment can lead to
spin-polarized triplet pair creation, and since such triplets are compatible
with spin-polarized materials they are able to pass deeply into the F layers
and so, cause a decrease in T$_c$. Various experiments on S/F$_1$/F$_2$
""triplet spin-valves"" have been performed with the most pronounced suppression
of T$_c$ reported in devices containing the half-metal ferromagnet (HMF)
CrO$_2$ (F$_2$) albeit using out-of-plane magnetic fields to tune magnetic
non-collinearity [Singh et al., Phys. Rev. X 5, 021019 (2015)]. Routine
transfer of spin-polarized triplets to HMFs is a major goal for superconducting
spintronics so as to maximize triplet-state spin-polarization. However, CrO$_2$
is chemically unstable and out-of-plane fields are undesirable for
superconductivity. Here, we demonstrate magnetization-tuneable pair conversion
and transfer of spin-polarized triplet pairs to the chemically stable mixed
valence manganite La$_{2/3}$Ca$_{1/3}$MnO$_3$ in a pseudo spin-valve device
using in-plane magnetic fields. The results match microscopic theory and offer
full control over the pairing state."  2017-06-01  "['Srivastava', 'Olthof', 'Di Bernardo', 'Komori', 'Amado', 'Palomares-Garcia', 'Alidoust', 'Halterman', 'Blamire', 'Robinson']"
1706.00338 "The key ingredients of the electronic structure of FeSe" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "FeSe is a fascinating superconducting material at the frontier of research in
condensed matter physics. Here we provide an overview on the current
understanding of the electronic structure of FeSe, focusing in particular on
its low energy electronic structure as determined from angular resolved
photoemission spectroscopy, quantum oscillations and magnetotransport
measurements of single crystal samples. We discuss the unique place of FeSe
amongst iron-based superconductors, being a multi-band system exhibiting strong
orbitally-dependent electronic correlations and unusually small Fermi surfaces,
prone to different electronic instabilities. We pay particular attention to the
evolution of the electronic structure which accompanies the
tetragonal-orthorhombic structural distortion of the lattice around 90 K, which
stabilizes a unique nematic electronic state. Finally, we discuss how the
multi-band multi-orbital nematic electronic structure has an impact on the
understanding of the superconductivity, and show that the tunability of the
nematic state with chemical and physical pressure will help to disentangle the
role of different competing interactions relevant for enhancing
superconductivity."  2017-06-01  "['Coldea', 'Watson']"
1706.00340 "Atomic Layer Deposition of Cerium Dioxide Film on TiN and Si Substrates:
  Structural and Chemical Properties" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Cerium dioxide (CeO2) thin films were deposited by atomic layer deposition
(ALD) on both Si and TiN substrates. The ALD growth produces CeO2 cubic
polycrystalline films on both substrates. However, the films show a
preferential orientation along <200> crystallographic direction for CeO2/Si or
<111> for CeO2/TiN. In correspondence, we measure a relative concentration of
Ce3+ equals to 22.0% in CeO2/Si and around 18% in CeO2/TiN, by X-ray
photoelectron spectroscopy. Such values indicate the presence of oxygen
vacancies in the films. Our results extend the knowledge on the structural and
chemical properties of ALD-deposited CeO2 either on Si or TiN substrates,
underlying films differences and similarities, thus contributing to boost the
use of CeO2 through ALD deposition as foreseen in a wide number of
applications."  2017-05-31  "['Vangelista', 'Piagge', 'Ek', 'Sarnet', 'Ghidini', 'Lamperti']"
1706.00347 "Cavity mediated manipulation of distant spin currents using
  cavity-magnon-polariton" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Using electrical detection of a strongly coupled spin-photon system comprised
of a microwave cavity mode and two magnetic samples, we demonstrate the long
distance manipulation of spin currents. This distant control is not limited by
the spin diffusion length, instead depending on the interplay between the local
and global properties of the coupled system, enabling systematic spin current
control over large distance scales (several centimeters in this work). This
flexibility opens the door to improved spin current generation and manipulation
for cavity spintronic devices." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.217201 2017-06-01  "['Bai', 'Harder', 'Hyde', 'Zhang', 'Hu', 'Chen', 'Xiao']"
1706.00351 "Current-induced spin polarization in InGaAs and GaAs epilayers with
  varying doping densities" cond-mat.mes-hall "The current-induced spin polarization and momentum-dependent spin-orbit field
were measured in In$_{x}$Ga$_{1-x}$As epilayers with varying indium
concentrations and silicon doping densities. Samples with higher indium
concentrations and carrier concentrations and lower mobilities were found to
have larger electrical spin generation efficiencies. Furthermore,
current-induced spin polarization was detected in GaAs epilayers despite the
absence of measurable spin-orbit fields, indicating that the extrinsic
contributions to the spin polarization mechanism must be considered.
Theoretical calculations based on a model that includes extrinsic contributions
to the spin dephasing and the spin Hall effect, in addition to the intrinsic
Rashba and Dresselhaus spin-orbit coupling, are found to qualitatively agree
with the experimental results."  2017-06-01  "['Luengo-Kovac', 'Huang', 'Del Gaudio', 'Occena', 'Goldman', 'Raimondi', 'Sih']"
1706.00353 "Hard-Wall Confinement of a Fractional Quantum Hall Liquid" cond-mat.quant-gas "We make use of numerical exact diagonalization calculations to explore the
physics of {\nu} = 1/2 bosonic fractional quantum Hall (FQH) droplets in the
presence of realistic cylindrically symmetric hard-wall potentials. This kind
of confinement is found to produce very different many-body spectra compared to
a harmonic trap or an extremely steep hard wall. For a relatively weak
confinement, the degeneracies are lifted and the low-lying excited states
organize themselves in energy branches that can be explained in terms of their
Jack polynomial representation. For a strong confinement, a strong spatial
deformation of the droplet is found, with an unexpected depletion of its
central density."  2017-06-01  "['Macaluso', 'Carusotto']"
1706.00372 "A Gibbs-potential-based framework for ideal plasticity of crystalline
  solids treated as a material flow through an adjustable crystal lattice space
  and its application to three-dimensional micropillar compression" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.flu-dyn" "We propose an Eulerian thermodynamically compatible model for ideal
plasticity of crystalline solids treated as a material flow through an
adjustable crystal lattice space. The model is based on the additive splitting
of the velocity gradient into the crystal lattice part and the plastic part.
The approach extends a Gibbs-potential-based formulation developed by Rajagopal
and Srinivasa for obtaining the response functions for elasto-visco-plastic
crystals. The framework makes constitutive assumptions for two scalar
functions: the Gibbs potential and the rate of dissipation. The constitutive
equations relating the stress to kinematical quantities is then determined
using the condition that the rate of dissipation is maximal providing that the
relevant constraints are met. The proposed model is applied to
three-dimensional micropillar compression, and its features, both on the level
of modelling and computer simulations, are discussed and compared to relevant
studies." 10.1016/j.ijplas.2016.09.006 2017-05-31  "['Kratochvíl', 'Málek', 'Minakowski']"
1706.00394 "Multiscale unfolding of real networks by geometric renormalization" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech physics.soc-ph" "Multiple scales coexist in complex networks. However, the small world
property makes them strongly entangled. This turns the elucidation of length
scales and symmetries a defiant challenge. Here, we define a geometric
renormalization group for complex networks and use the technique to investigate
networks as viewed at different scales. We find that real networks embedded in
a hidden metric space show geometric scaling, in agreement with the
renormalizability of the underlying geometric model. This allows us to unfold
real scale-free networks in a self-similar multilayer shell which unveils the
coexisting scales and their interplay. The multiscale unfolding offers a basis
for a new approach to explore critical phenomena and universality in complex
networks, and affords us immediate practical applications, like high-fidelity
smaller-scale replicas of large networks and a multiscale navigation protocol
in hyperbolic space which boosts the success of single-layer versions."  2017-06-01  "['García-Pérez', 'Boguñá', 'Serrano']"
1706.00412 "Conformality of $1/N$ corrections in SYK-like models" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el" "The Sachdev-Ye--Kitaev is a quantum mechanical model of $N$ Majorana fermions
which displays a number of appealing features -- solvability in the strong
coupling regime, near-conformal invariance and maximal chaos -- which make it a
suitable model for black holes in the context of the AdS/CFT holography. In
this paper we show for the colored SYK model and several of its tensor model
cousins that the next-to-leading order in the $N$ expansion preserves the
conformal invariance of the $2$-point function in the strong coupling regime,
up to the contribution of the Goldstone bosons leading to the spontaneous
breaking of the symmetry and which are already seen in the leading order
$4$-point function. We also comment on the composite field approach for
computing correlation functions in colored tensor models."  2017-06-01  "['Dartois', 'Erbin', 'Mondal']"
1706.00413 "Transport in out-of-equilibrium XXZ chains: non-ballistic behavior and
  correlation functions" "cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "We consider the nonequilibrium protocol where two semi-infinite gapped XXZ
chains, initially prepared in different equilibrium states, are suddenly joint
together. At large times, a generalized hydrodynamic description applies,
according to which the system can locally be represented by space- and time-
dependent stationary states. The magnetization displays an unusual behavior:
depending on the initial state, its profile may exhibit abrupt jumps that can
not be predicted directly from the standard hydrodynamic equations and which
signal non-ballistic spin transport. We ascribe this phenomenon to the
structure of the local conservation laws and make a prediction for the exact
location of the jumps. We find that the jumps propagate at the velocities of
the heaviest quasiparticles. By means of tDMRG simulations we show that our
theory yields a complete description of the long-time steady profiles of
conserved charges, currents, and local correlations."  2017-06-01  "['Piroli', 'De Nardis', 'Collura', 'Bertini', 'Fagotti']"
1706.00416 "Quantifying Confidence in Density Functional Theory Predicted Magnetic
  Ground States" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The success of descriptor-based material design relies on eliminating bad
candidates and keeping good candidates for further investigation. While DFT has
been widely successfully for the former, often times good candidates are lost
due to the uncertainty associated with the DFT-predicted material properties.
Uncertainty associated with DFT predictions has gained prominence and has led
to the development of exchange correlation functionals that have built-in error
estimation capability. In this work, we demonstrate the use of built-in error
estimation capabilities within the BEEF-vdW exchange correlation functional for
quantifying the uncertainty associated with the magnetic ground state of
solids. We demonstrate this approach by calculating the uncertainty estimate
for the energy difference between the different magnetic states of solids and
compare them against a range of GGA exchange correlation functionals as is done
in many first principles calculations of materials. We show that this estimate
reasonably bounds the range of values obtained with the different GGA
functionals. The estimate is determined as a post-processing step and thus
provides a computationally robust and systematic approach to estimating
uncertainty associated with predictions of magnetic ground states. We define a
confidence value (c-value) that incorporates all calculated magnetic states in
order to quantify the concurrence of the prediction at the GGA level and argue
that predictions of magnetic ground states from GGA level DFT is incomplete
without an accompanying c-value. We demonstrate the utility of this method
using a case study of Li and Na-ion cathode materials and the c-value metric
correctly identifies that GGA level DFT will have low predictability for
NaFePO$_4$F."  2017-06-01  "['Houchins', 'Viswanathan']"
1706.00429 "Symmetric-Gapped Surface States of Fractional Topological Insulators" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mes-hall hep-th" "We construct the symmetric-gapped surface states of a fractional topological
insulator with electromagnetic $\theta$-angle $\theta_{em} = \frac{\pi}{3}$ and
a discrete $\mathbb{Z}_3$ gauge field. They are the proper generalizations of
the T-pfaffian state and pfaffian/anti-semion state and feature an extended
periodicity compared with their of ""integer"" topological band insulators
counterparts. We demonstrate that the surface states have the correct anomalies
associated with time-reversal symmetry and charge conservation."  2017-06-01  "['Cho', 'Teo', 'Fradkin']"
1706.00456 "Universal response of the type-II Weyl semimetals phase diagram" cond-mat.mes-hall "The discovery of Weyl semimetals represents a significant advance in
topological band theory. They paradigmatically enlarged the classification of
topological materials to gapless systems while simultaneously providing
experimental evidence for the long-sought Weyl fermions. Beyond fundamental
relevance, their high mobility, strong magnetoresistance, and the possible
existence of even more exotic effects, such as the chiral anomaly, make Weyl
semimetals a promising platform to develop radically new technology. Fully
exploiting their potential requires going beyond the mere identification of
materials and calls for a detailed characterization of their functional
response, which is severely complicated by the coexistence of surface- and
bulk-derived topologically protected quasiparticles, i.e., Fermi arcs and Weyl
points, respectively. Here, we focus on the type-II Weyl semimetal class where
we find a stoichiometry-dependent phase transition from a trivial to a
non-trivial regime. By exploring the two extreme cases of the phase diagram, we
demonstrate the existence of a universal response of both surface and bulk
states to perturbations. We show that quasi-particle interference patterns
originate from scattering events among surface arcs. Analysis reveals that
topologically non-trivial contributions are strongly suppressed by spin
texture. We also show that scattering at localized impurities generate
defect-induced quasiparticles sitting close to the Weyl point energy. These
give rise to strong peaks in the local density of states, which lift the Weyl
node significantly altering the pristine low-energy Weyl spectrum. Visualizing
the microscopic response to scattering has important consequences for
understanding the unusual transport properties of this class of materials.
Overall, our observations provide a unifying picture of the Weyl phase diagram."  2017-06-01  "['Rüßmann', 'Weber', 'Glott', 'Xu', 'Fanciulli', 'Muff', 'Magrez', 'Bugnon', 'Berger', 'Bode', 'Dil', 'Blügel', 'Mavropoulos', 'Sessi']"
1706.00458 "Magnetic refrigeration with paramagnetic semiconductors at cryogenic
  temperatures" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We propose paramagnetic semiconductors as active media for refrigeration at
cryogenic temperatures by adiabatic demagnetization. The paramagnetism of
impurity dopants or structural defects can provide the entropy necessary for
refrigeration at cryogenic temperatures. We present a simple model for the
theoretical limitations to specific entropy and cooling power achievable by
demagnetization of various semiconductor systems. Performance comparable to
that of the hydrate (CMN) is predicted."  2017-06-01  "['Vlasov', 'Guillemette', 'Gervais', 'Szkopek']"
1706.00461 "Thermoelectrics in Coulomb-coupled quantum dots: Cotunneling and
  energy-dependent lead couplings" cond-mat.mes-hall "We study thermoelectric effects in Coulomb-coupled quantum-dot (CCQD) systems
beyond lowest-order tunneling processes and the often applied wide-band
approximation. To this end, we present a master-equation (ME) approach based on
a perturbative $T$-matrix calculation of the charge and heat tunneling rates
and transport currents. Applying the method to transport through a
non-interacting single-level QD, we demonstrate excellent agreement with the
Landauer-B{\""u}ttiker theory when higher-order (cotunneling) processes are
included in the ME. Next, we study the effect of cotunneling and
energy-dependent lead couplings on the heat currents in a system of two
Coulomb-coupled QDs. Overall, we find that cotunneling processes (i) dominate
the heat currents at low temperature and bias, and (ii) give rise to a
pronounced reduction of the cooling power achievable with the recently
demonstrated Maxwell's demon cooling mechanism. Furthermore, we demonstrate
that the cooling power can be boosted significantly by carefully engineering
the energy dependence of the lead couplings to filter out undesired transport
processes. Our findings emphasize the importance of considering higher-order
cotunneling processes as well as the advantage of engineered energy-dependent
lead couplings in the optimization of the thermoelectric performance of
Coulomb-coupled QD systems."  2017-06-01  "['Walldorf', 'Jauho', 'Kaasbjerg']"
1706.00470 "Density waves in strongly correlated quantum chains" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.quant-gas" "We review exact numerical results for one-dimensional quantum systems with
half-filled bands. The topics covered include Peierls transitions in Holstein,
Fr\""ohlich, Su-Schrieffer-Heeger, and Heisenberg models with quantum phonons,
competing fermion-boson and fermion-fermion interactions, as well as
symmetry-protected topological states in fermion and anyon models."  2017-06-01  "['Hohenadler', 'Fehske']"
1706.00484 "Crystal truncation rods from miscut surfaces" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Crystal truncation rods are used to study surface and interface structure.
Since real surfaces are always somewhat miscut from a low index plane, it is
important to study the effect of miscut on crystal truncation rods. We develop
a model that describes the truncation rod scattering from miscut surfaces that
have steps and terraces. We show that non-uniform terrace widths and jagged
step edges are both forms of roughness that decrease the intensity of the rods.
Non-uniform terrace widths also result in a broad peak that overlaps the rods.
We use our model to characterize the terrace width distribution and step edge
jaggedness on three SrTiO$_3$ (001) samples, showing excellent agreement
between the model and the data, confirmed by atomic force micrographs of the
surface morphology. We expect our description of terrace roughness will apply
to many surfaces, even those without obvious terracing." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.184104 2017-06-01  "['Petach', 'Mehta', 'Toney', 'Goldhaber-Gordon']"
1706.00489 "Optimal paths on the road network as directed polymers" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.dis-nn" "We analyze the statistics of the shortest and fastest paths on the road
network between randomly sampled end points. To a good approximation, these
optimal paths are found to be directed in that their lengths (at large scales)
are linearly proportional to the absolute distance between them. This motivates
comparisons to universal features of directed polymers in random media. There
are similarities in scalings of fluctuations in length/time and transverse
wanderings, but also important distinctions in the scaling exponents, likely
due to long-range correlations in geographic and man-made features. At short
scales the optimal paths are not directed due to circuitous excursions governed
by a fat-tailed (power-law) probability distribution."  2017-06-01  "['Solon', 'Bunin', 'Chu', 'Kardar']"
1706.00494 "Low-temperature thermal transport and thermopower of monolayer
  transition metal dichalcogenide semiconductors" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We study the low temperature thermal conductivity of single-layer transition
metal dichalcogenides. In the low temperature regime where heat is carried
primarily through transport of electrons, thermal conductivity is linked to
electrical conductivity through the Wiedemann-Franz law. Using a \textit{k.p}
Hamiltonian that describes the $ K $ and $ K^{'} $ valley edges, we compute the
zero-frequency electric (Drude) conductivity using the Kubo formula to obtain a
numerical estimate for the thermal conductivity. The impurity scattering
determined transit time of electrons which enters the Drude expression is
evaluated within the self-consistent Born approximation. The analytic
expressions derived show that low temperature thermal conductivity 1) is
determined by the band gap at the valley edges in monolayer TMDCs and 2) in
presence of disorder which can give rise to the variable range hopping regime,
there is a distinct reduction. Additionally, we compute the Mott thermopower
and demonstrate that under a high frequency light beam that sets up a Floquet
Hamiltonian, a valley-resolved thermopower can be obtained. A closing summary
reviews the implications of results followed by a brief discussion on
applicability of the Wiedemann-Franz law and its breakdown in context of the
presented calculations."  2017-06-01  ['Sengupta']
1706.00501 "Tough self-healing elastomers by molecular enforced integration of
  covalent and reversible networks" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.soft" "Self-healing polymers crosslinked by solely reversible bonds are
intrinsically weaker than common covalently crosslinked networks. Introducing
covalent crosslinks into a reversible network would improve mechanical
strength. It is challenging, however, to apply this design concept to dry
elastomers, largely because reversible crosslinks such as hydrogen bonds are
often polar motifs, whereas covalent crosslinks are non-polar motifs, and these
two types of bonds are intrinsically immiscible without co-solvents. Here we
design and fabricate a hybrid polymer network by crosslinking randomly branched
polymers carrying motifs that can form both reversible hydrogen bonds and
permanent covalent crosslinks. The randomly branched polymer links such two
types of bonds and forces them to mix on the molecular level without
co-solvents. This allows us to create a hybrid dry elastomer that is very tough
with a fracture energy $13,500J/m^2$ comparable to that of natural rubber;
moreover, the elastomer can self-heal at room temperature with a recovered
tensile strength 4 MPa similar to that of existing self-healing elastomers. The
concept of forcing covalent and reversible bonds to mix at molecular scale to
create a homogenous network is quite general and should enable development of
tough, self-healing polymers of practical usage."  2017-06-01  "['Wu', 'Cai', 'Weitz']"
1706.00512 "Spin-density fluctuations and the fluctuation-dissipation theorem in 3d
  ferromagnetic metals" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Spatial and time scales of spin density fluctuations (SDF) as well as the
fluctuation-dissipation theorem (FDT) were analyzed in 3d ferromagnets using ab
initio linear response calculations of complete wavevector and energy
dependence of the dynamic spin susceptibility tensor. We demonstrate that SDF
are spread continuously over the entire Brillouin zone and while majority of
them reside within the 3d bandwidth, a significant amount comes from much
higher energies. A justification of adiabatic approximation in spin dynamics is
provided. FDT is shown to have two main constituents: a minor low-energy spin
wave contribution and a much larger high-energy component from local SDF. The
obtained universal dependence of the on-site spin correlator (SC) and the
related effective fluctuating moment on the 3d band population is further
discussed."  2017-06-01  "['Wysocki', 'Valmispild', 'Kutepov', 'Sharma', 'Dewhurst', 'Gross', 'Lichtenstein', 'Antropov']"
1706.00515 "Scale invariant transfer matrices and Hamiltionians" "math.OA cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.DS math.MP math.QA" "Given a direct system of Hilbert spaces $s\mapsto \mathcal H_s$ (with
isometric inclusion maps $\iota_s^t:\mathcal H_s\rightarrow \mathcal H_t$ for
$s\leq t$) corresponding to quantum systems on scales $s$, we define notions of
scale invariant and weakly scale invariant operators. Is some cases of quantum
spin chains we find conditions for transfer matrices and nearest neighbour
Hamiltonians to be scale invariant or weakly so. Scale invariance forces
spatial inhomogeneity of the spectral parameter. But weakly scale invariant
transfer matrices may be spatially homogeneous in which case the change of
spectral parameter from one scale to another is governed by a classical
dynamical system exhibiting fractal behaviour."  2017-06-01  ['Jones']
1706.00528 "Beating maps of singlet fission: Full-quantum simulation of coherent
  two-dimensional electronic spectroscopy in organic aggregates" cond-mat.mes-hall "The coherent two-dimensional (2D) electronic spectra with respect to the
singlet fission (SF) process in organic molecular aggregates are simulated by
the Davydov ansatz combined with the Frenkel-Dirac time-dependent variational
algorithm. By virtue of the full-quantum dynamical approach, we are able to
identify the signals of triplet excitation in the excite-state absorption
contribution of the 2D spectra. In order to discuss whether a mediative
charge-transfer (CT) state is necessary to SF, we increase the CT-state energy
and find, in a theoretical manner, the beating signal related to the triplet is
inhibited. The vibronic coherence is then studied in the beating maps for both
the ground and excited state. Except for the normal beating modes adhering to
the relevant electronic state, we observe signals that are explicitly related
to the triplet excitations. The pathways of transition corresponding to these
signals are clarified in the respective Feynman diagram, which can help the
experimenters determine the physical origin of relevant measurements."  2017-06-01  "['Sun', 'Yao']"
1706.00539 "Bosonic molecules in a lattice: unconventional phases from multichannel
  interactions" cond-mat.quant-gas "We show that multichannel interactions dramatically alter the phase diagram
of ultracold bosonic molecules in an optical lattice. Most prominently, an
unusual fluid region intervenes between the conventional superfluid and the
Mott insulator. In it, number fluctuations remain but phase coherence is
suppressed. We calculate the phase diagram using complementary methods,
including Gutzwiller mean-field and density matrix renormalization group (DMRG)
calculations. Although we focus on bosonic molecules without dipolar
interactions, we expect multichannel interactions to remain important for
dipolar interacting and fermionic molecules."  2017-06-01  "['Ewart', 'Wall', 'Hazzard']"
1706.00548 "Orientation dependence of high-harmonic generation in monolayer
  transition metal dichalcogenides" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We theoretically investigate the orientation dependence of high-harmonic
generation (HHG) in monolayer transition metal dichalcogenides (TMDCs). We find
that, unlike conventional solid-state and atomic layered materials such as
graphene, both parallel and perpendicular emissions with respect to the
incident electric field exist in TMDCs. Interestingly, the parallel
(perpendicular) emissions principally contain only odd-(even-) order harmonics.
Both harmonics show the same periodicity in the crystallographic orientations
but opposite phases. These peculiar behaviors can be understood on the basis of
the dipole moments in TMDCs, which reflect the symmetries of both atomic
orbitals and lattice structures. Our findings are qualitatively consistent with
recent experi- mental results and provide a possibility for high-harmonic
spectroscopy of solid-state materials."  2017-06-02  "['Tamaya', 'Konabe', 'Kawabata']"
1706.00549 "Coherent Terahertz Spin-Wave Emission Associated with Ferrimagnetic
  Domain Wall Dynamics" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We theoretically study the dynamics of ferrimagnetic domain walls in the
presence of Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction. We find that an application of a
DC magnetic field can induce terahertz spin-wave emission by driving
ferrimagnetic domain walls, which is not possible for ferromagnetic or
antiferromagnetic domain walls. Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction is shown to
facilitate the teraherz spin-wave emission in wide ranges of net angular
momentum by increasing the Walkerbreakdown field. Moreover, we show that
spin-orbit torque combined with Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya interaction also drives a
fast ferrimagnetic domain wall motion with emitting terahertz spin-waves in
wide ranges of net angular momentum."  2017-06-02  "['Oh', 'Kim', 'Lee', 'Go', 'Kim', 'Ono', 'Tserkovnyak', 'Lee']"
1706.00557 "From orbifolding conformal field theories to gauging topological phases" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech" "Topological phases of matter in (2+1) dimensions are commonly equipped with
global symmetries, such as electric-magnetic duality in gauge theories and
bilayer symmetry in fractional quantum Hall states. Gauging these symmetries
into local dynamical ones is one way of obtaining exotic phases from
conventional systems. We study this using the bulk-boundary correspondence and
applying the orbifold construction to the (1+1) dimensional edge described by a
conformal field theory (CFT). Our procedure puts twisted boundary conditions
into the partition function, and predicts the fusion, spin and braiding
behavior of anyonic excitations after gauging. We demonstrate this for the
electric-magnetic self-dual $\mathbb{Z}_N$ gauge theory, the twofold symmetric
$SU(3)_1$, and the $S_3$-symmetric $SO(8)_1$ Wess-Zumino-Witten theories."  2017-06-02  "['Chen', 'Roy', 'Teo', 'Ryu']"
1706.00560 "Gauging (3+1)-dimensional topological phases: an approach from surface
  theories" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech" "We discuss several bosonic topological phases in (3+1) dimensions enriched by
a global $\mathbb{Z}_2$ symmetry, and gauging the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ symmetry. More
specifically, following the spirit of the bulk-boundary correspondence,
expected to hold in topological phases of matter in general, we consider
boundary (surface) field theories and their orbifold. From the surface
partition functions, we extract the modular $\mathcal{S}$ and $\mathcal{T}$
matrices and compare them with $(2+1)$d toplogical phase after dimensional
reduction. As a specific example, we discuss topologically ordered phases in
$(3+1)$ dimensions described by the BF topological quantum field theories, with
abelian exchange statistics between point-like and loop-like quasiparticles.
Once the $\mathbb{Z}_2$ charge conjugation symmetry is gauged, the
$\mathbb{Z}_2$ flux becomes non-abelian excitation. The gauged topological
phases we are considering here belong to the quantum double model with
non-abelian group in $(3+1)$ dimensions."  2017-06-02  "['Chen', 'Tiwari', 'Nayak', 'Ryu']"
1706.00561 "Quantum Fluctuations of Entropy Production for Fermionic Systems in
  Landauer-Buttiker State" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el math-ph math.MP" "The quantum fluctuations of the entropy production for fermionic systems in
the Landauer-Buttiker non-equilibrium steady state are investigated. The
probability distribution, governing these fluctuations, is explicitly derived
by means of quantum field theory methods and analysed in the zero frequency
limit. It turns out that microscopic processes with positive, vanishing and
negative entropy production occur in the system with non-vanishing probability.
In spite of this fact, we show that all odd moments (in particular, the mean
value of the entropy production) of the above distribution are non-negative.
This result extends the second principle of thermodynamics to the quantum
fluctuations of the entropy production in the Landauer-Buttiker state. The
impact of the time reversal is also discussed."  2017-06-02  "['Mintchev', 'Santoni', 'Sorba']"
1706.00586 "How is the derivative discontinuity related to steps in the exact
  Kohn-Sham potential?" "physics.atom-ph cond-mat.str-el physics.chem-ph physics.comp-ph" "The reliability of density-functional calculations hinges on accurately
approximating the unknown exchange-correlation (xc) potential. Common
(semi-)local xc approximations lack the jump experienced by the exact xc
potential as the number of electrons infinitesimally surpasses an integer, and
the spatial steps that form in the potential as a result of the change in the
decay rate of the density. These features are important for an accurate
prediction of the fundamental gap and the distribution of charge in complex
systems. Although well-known concepts, the exact relationship between them
remained unclear. In this Letter, we establish the common fundamental origin of
these two features of the exact xc potential via an analytical derivation. We
support our result with an exact numerical solution of the many-electron
Schroedinger equation for a single atom and a diatomic molecule in one
dimension. Furthermore, we propose a way to extract the fundamental gap from
the step structures in the potential."  2017-06-02  "['Hodgson', 'Kraisler', 'Gross']"
1706.00588 "Magnetic structure of the MnGe helimagnet and representation analysis" cond-mat.str-el "In the light of recent results obtained for the prototype helimagnet MnSi we
examine the possible magnetic structures of compounds of the same family,
consistent with the crystal symmetries when the magnetic propagation vector is
parallel to the [001] axis. The analysis of a published muon spin rotation
spectrum recorded in MnGe [Phys. Rev. B 93, 174405 (2016)] shows no deviation
from the canonical helimagnetic structure, unlike in MnSi. This qualitative
difference calls for further theoretical works on chiral magnets." 10.1103/PhysRevB.95.174422 2017-06-02  "['Yaouanc', 'de Reotier', 'Maisuradze', 'Roessli']"
1706.00608 "Detergency and its implications for oil emulsion sieving and separation" cond-mat.soft "Separating petroleum hydrocarbons from water is an important problem to
address in order to mitigate the disastrous effects of hydrocarbons on aquatic
ecosystems. A rational approach to address the problem of marine oil water
separation is to disperse the oil with the aid of surfactants in order to
minimize the formation of large slicks at the water surface and to maximize the
oil-water interfacial area. Here we investigate the fundamental wetting and
transport behavior of such surfactant-stabilized droplets and the flow
conditions necessary to perform sieving and separation of these stabilized
emulsions. We show that, for water soluble surfactants, such droplets are
completely repelled by a range of materials (intrinsically underwater
superoleophobic) due to the detergency effect; therefore, there is no need for
surface micro/nanotexturing or chemical treatment to repel the oil and prevent
fouling of the filter. We then simulate and experimentally investigate the
effect of emulsion flow rate on the transport and impact behavior of such
droplets on rigid meshes to identify the minimum pore opening (w) necessary to
filter a droplet with a given diameter (d) in order to minimize the pressure
drop across the mesh and therefore maximize the filtering efficiency, which is
strongly dependent on w. We define a range of flow conditions and droplet sizes
where minimum droplet deformation is to be expected and therefore find that the
condition of is sufficient for efficient separation. With this new
understanding, we demonstrate the use of a commercially available
filter--without any additional surface engineering or functionalization--to
separate oil droplets from a surfactant stabilized emulsion with a flux of
11,000 L m$^{-2}$ hr$^{-1}$ bar$^{-1}$. We believe these findings can inform
the design of future oil separation materials." 10.1021/acs.langmuir.7b00188 2017-06-02  "['Schutzius', 'Walker', 'Maitra', 'Schönherr', 'Stamatopoulos', 'Jung', 'Antonini', 'Eghlidi', 'Fife', 'Patera', 'Derome', 'Poulikakos']"
1706.00618 "Nonperturbative RG treatment of amplitude fluctuations for
  $\boldsymbol{|\varphi|^4}$ topological phase transitions" cond-mat.quant-gas "The study of the Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) transition in
two-dimensional $|\varphi|^4$ models can be performed in several
representations, and the amplitude-phase (AP) Madelung parametrization is a
natural way to study the contribution of density fluctuations to non-universal
quantities. We show how one can obtain a consistent phase diagram in the AP
representation using the functional renormalization group scheme. Constructing
the mapping between $|\varphi|^4$ and the $XY$ models allows us to treat these
models on equal footing. We estimate universal and non-universal quantities of
the two models and find good agreement with available Monte Carlo results. The
presented approach is flexible enough to treat parameter ranges of experimental
relevance."  2017-06-02  "['Defenu', 'Trombettoni', 'Nandori', 'Enss']"
1706.00619 "Experimental investigation of the temperature-dependent magnon density
  and its influence on studies of spin-transfer-torque-driven systems" cond-mat.mes-hall "We present the temperature dependence of the thermal magnon density in a thin
ferromagnetic layer. By employing Brillouin light scattering and varying the
temperature, an increase of the magnon density accompanied by a lowering of the
spin-wave frequency is observed with increasing temperature. The magnon density
follows the temperature according to the Bose-Einstein distribution function
which leads to an approximately linear dependency. In addition, the influence
of this effect in spin-transfer-torque-driven systems is presented. In
particular, the increase in the magnon density with temperature sets the limit
for a suppression of magnons in charge current-driven systems. Hence, the
maximum possible suppression of thermal magnons occurs at a finite current."  2017-06-02  "['Meyer', 'Brächer', 'Heussner', 'Serga', 'Naganuma', 'Mukaiyama', 'Oogane', 'Ando', 'Hillebrands', 'Pirro']"
1706.00639 "Electrostatic mechanophores in tuneable light-emitting piezo-polymer
  nanowires" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Electromechanical coupling through piezoelectric polymer chains allows the
emission of organic molecules in active nanowires to be tuned. This effect is
evidenced by highly bendable arrays of counter-ion dye-doped nanowires made of
a poly(vinylidenefluoride) copolymer. A reversible redshift of the dye emission
is found upon the application of dynamic stress during highly accurate bending
experiments. By density functional theory calculations it is found that these
photophysical properties are associated with mechanical stresses applied to
electrostatically interacting molecular systems, namely to counterion-mediated
states that involve light-emitting molecules as well as charged regions of
piezoelectric polymer chains. These systems are an electrostatic class of
supramolecular functional stress-sensitive units, which might impart new
functionalities in hybrid molecular nanosystems and anisotropic nanostructures
for sensing devices and soft robotics." 10.1002/adma.201701031 2017-06-02  "['Persano', 'Camposeo', 'Terentjevs', 'Della Sala', 'Fabiano', 'Montinaro', 'Pisignano']"
1706.00642 "Two-dimensional Dirac signature of germanene" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The structural and electronic properties of germanene coated Ge$_2$Pt
clusters have been determined by scanning tunneling microscopy and spectroscopy
at room temperature. The interior of the germanene sheet exhibits a buckled
honeycomb structure with a lattice constant of 4.3 \AA and a buckling of 0.2
\AA. The zigzag edges of germanene are reconstructed and display a 4$\times$
periodicity. The differential conductivity of the interior of the germanene
sheet has a V-shape, which is reminiscent of the density of states of a
two-dimensional Dirac system. The minimum of the differential conductivity is
located close to the Fermi level and has a non-zero value, which we ascribe to
the metallic character of the underlying Ge$_2$Pt substrate. Near the
reconstructed germanene zigzag edges the shape of the differential conductivity
changes from a V-shape to a more parabolic-like shape, revealing that the
reconstructed germanene zigzag edges do not exhibit a pronounced metallic edge
state." 10.1063/1.4931102 2017-06-02  "['Zhang', 'Bampoulis', 'van Houselt', 'Zandvliet']"
1706.00644 "Liquid bridging of cylindrical colloids in near-critical solvents" cond-mat.soft "Within mean field theory, we investigate the bridging transition between a
pair of parallel cylindrical colloids immersed in a binary liquid mixture as a
solvent which is close to its critical consolute point $T_c$. We determine the
universal scaling functions of the effective potential and of the force between
the colloids. For a solvent which is at the critical concentration and close to
$T_c$, we find that the critical Casimir force is the dominant interaction at
close separations. This agrees very well with the corresponding Derjaguin
approximation for the effective interaction between the two cylinders, while
capillary forces originating from the extension of the liquid bridge turn out
to be more important at large separations. In addition, we are able to infer
from the wetting characteristics of the individual colloids the first-order
transition of the liquid bridge connecting two colloidal particles to the
ruptured state. While specific to cylindrical colloids, the results presented
here provide also an outline for identifying critical Casimir forces acting on
bridged colloidal particles as such, and for analyzing the bridging transition
between them."  2017-06-02  "['Labbé-Laurent', 'Law', 'Dietrich']"
1706.00654 "Universal and shape dependent features of surface superconductivity" "cond-mat.supr-con math-ph math.AP math.MP" "We analyze the response of a type II superconducting wire to an external
magnetic field parallel to it in the framework of Ginzburg-Landau theory. We
focus on the surface superconductivity regime of applied field between the
second and third critical values, where the superconducting state survives only
close to the sample's boundary. Our first finding is that, in first
approximation, the shape of the boundary plays no role in determining the
density of superconducting electrons. A second order term is however isolated,
directly proportional to the mean curvature of the boundary. This demonstrates
that points of higher boundary curvature (counted inwards) attract
superconducting electrons."  2017-06-02  "['Correggi', 'Devanarayanan', 'Rougerie']"
1706.00667 "Multiscale dynamical network mechanisms underlying aging from birth to
  death" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.other physics.bio-ph" "How self-organized networks develop, mature and degenerate is a key question
for sociotechnical, cyberphysical and biological systems with potential
applications from tackling violent extremism through to neurological diseases.
So far, it has proved impossible to measure the continuous-time evolution of
any in vivo organism network from birth to death. Here we provide such a study
which crosses all organizational and temporal scales, from individual
components (10^1) through to the mesoscopic (10^3) and entire system scale
(10^6). These continuous-time data reveal a lifespan driven by punctuated,
real-time co-evolution of the structural and functional networks. Aging sees
these structural and functional networks gradually diverge in terms of their
small-worldness and eventually their connectivity. Dying emerges as an extended
process associated with the formation of large but disjoint functional
sub-networks together with an increasingly detached core. Our mathematical
model quantifies the very different impacts that interventions will have on the
overall lifetime, period of initial growth, peak of potency, and duration of
old age, depending on when and how they are administered. In addition to their
direct relevance to online extremism, our findings offer fresh insight into
aging in any network system of comparable complexity for which extensive in
vivo data is not yet available."  2017-06-02  "['Zheng', 'Cao', 'Vorobyeva', 'Manrique', 'Song', 'Johnson']"
1706.00670 "Topological antiferromagnetic spintronics: Part of a collection of
  reviews on antiferromagnetic spintronics" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.other" "The recent demonstrations of electrical manipulation and detection of
antiferromagnetic spins have opened up a chapter in the spintronics story. In
this article, we review the emerging research field that is exploring synergies
between antiferromagnetic spintronics and topological structures in real and
momentum space. Active topics include proposals to realize Majorana fermions in
an antiferromagnetic topological superconductors, to control topological
protection of Dirac points by manipulating antiferromagnetic order parameters,
and to exploit the anomalous and topological Hall effects of zero net moment
antiferromagnets. We explain the basic physics concepts behind these proposals,
and discuss potential applications of topological antiferromagnetic
spintronics."  2017-05-30  "['Šmejkal', 'Mokrousov', 'Yan', 'MacDonald']"
1706.00675 "Hydrophobic Ice Confined between Graphene and MoS2" "physics.chem-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "The structure and nature of water confined between hydrophobic molybdenum
disulfide (MoS2) and graphene (Gr) are investigated at room temperature by
means of atomic force microscopy. We find the formation of two-dimensional (2D)
crystalline ice layers. In contrast to the hexagonal ice 'bilayers' of bulk
ice, these 2D crystalline ice phases consist of two planar hexagonal layers.
Additional water condensation leads to either lateral expansion of the ice
layers or to the formation of three-dimensional water droplets on top or at the
edges of the two-layer ice, indicating that water does not wet these planar ice
films. The results presented here are in line with a recent theory suggesting
that water confined between hydrophobic walls forms 2D crystalline two-layer
ice with a nontetrahedral geometry and intrahydrogen bonding. The lack of
dangling bonds on either surface of the ice film gives rise to a hydrophobic
character. The unusual geometry of these ice films is of great potential
importance in biological systems with water in direct contact with hydrophobic
surfaces." 10.1021/acs.jpcc.6b09812 2017-06-02  "['Bampoulis', 'Teernstra', 'Lohse', 'Zandvliet', 'Poelsema']"
1706.00680 "Structural and electronic properties of germanene on MoS$_2$" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "To date, germanene has only been synthesized on metallic substrates. A
metallic substrate is usually detrimental for the two-dimensional Dirac nature
of germanene because the important electronic states near the Fermi level of
germanene can hybridize with the electronic states of the metallic substrate.
Here we report the successful synthesis of germanene on molybdenum disulfide
(MoS$_2$), a band gap material. Pre-existing defects in the MoS$_2$ surface act
as preferential nucleation sites for the germanene islands. The lattice
constant of the germanene layer (3.8 $\pm$ 0.2 \AA) is about 20\% larger than
the lattice constant of the MoS$_2$ substrate (3.16 \AA). Scanning tunneling
spectroscopy measurements and density functional theory calculations reveal
that there are, besides the linearly dispersing bands at the $K$ points, two
parabolic bands that cross the Fermi level at the $\Gamma$ point." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.116.256804 2017-06-02  "['Zhang', 'Bampoulis', 'Rudenko', 'Yao', 'van Houselt', 'Poelsema', 'Katsnelson', 'Zandvliet']"
1706.00697 "Germanene termination of Ge${_2}$Pt crystals on Ge(110)" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We have investigated the growth of Pt on Ge(110) using scanning tunneling
microscopy and spectroscopy. The deposition of several monolayers of Pt on
Ge(110) followed by annealing at 1100 K results in the formation of
three-dimensional metallic Pt-Ge nanocrystals. The outermost layer of these
crystals exhibits a honeycomb structure. The honeycomb structure is composed of
two hexagonal sub-lattices that are displaced vertically by 0.2 {\AA} with
respect to each other. The nearest-neighbor distance of the atoms in the
honeycomb lattice is 2.5${\pm}$0.1 {\AA}, i.e. very close to the predicted
nearest-neighbor distance in germanene (2.4 {\AA}). Scanning tunneling
spectroscopy reveals that the atomic layer underneath the honeycomb layer is
more metallic than the honeycomb layer itself. These observations are in line
with a model recently proposed for metal di-(silicides/)germanides: a hexagonal
crystal with metal layers separated by semiconductor layers with a honeycomb
lattice. Based on our observations we propose that the outermost layer of the
Ge2Pt nanocrystal is a germanene layer." 10.1088/0953-8984/26/44/442001 2017-06-02  "['Bampoulis', 'Zhang', 'Safaei', 'van Gastel', 'Poelsema', 'Zandvliet']"
1706.00703 "Hyperfine-induced dephasing in three-electron spin qubits" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "We calculate the pure dephasing time of three-electron exchange-only qubits
due to interaction with the nuclear hyperfine field. Within the $S=S_z=1/2$
spin subspace, we derive formulas for the dephasing time in the $(1,1,1)$
charge region and in the neighboring charge sectors coupled by tunneling. The
nuclear field and the tunneling are taken into account in a second order
approximation. The analytical solutions accurately reproduce the numerical
evaluation of the full problem, and in comparison with existing experimental
data, we find that the dephasing times are longer but on the same timescale as
for single spins. Our analysis also applies to the resonant exchange (RX),
always-on exchange-only (AEON) and hybrid qubits."  2017-06-02  "['Péterfalvi', 'Burkard']"
1706.00705 "Streaming Bayesian inference: theoretical limits and mini-batch
  approximate message-passing" "stat.ML cond-mat.stat-mech cs.IT math.IT" "In statistical learning for real-world large-scale data problems, one must
often resort to ""streaming"" algorithms which operate sequentially on small
batches of data. In this work, we present an analysis of the
information-theoretic limits of mini-batch inference in the context of
generalized linear models and low-rank matrix factorization. In a controlled
Bayes-optimal setting, we characterize the optimal performance and phase
transitions as a function of mini-batch size. We base part of our results on a
detailed analysis of a mini-batch version of the approximate message-passing
algorithm (Mini-AMP), which we introduce. Additionally, we show that this
theoretical optimality carries over into real-data problems by illustrating
that Mini-AMP is competitive with standard streaming algorithms for clustering."  2017-06-02  "['Manoel', 'Krzakala', 'Tramel', 'Zdeborová']"
1706.00708 "Guided Modes of Anisotropic van der Waals Materials Investigated by
  Near-Field Scanning Optical Microscopy" "physics.optics cond-mat.mes-hall" "Guided modes in anisotropic two-dimensional van der Waals materials are
experimentally investigated and their refractive indices in visible wavelengths
are extracted. Our method involves near-field scanning optical microscopy of
waveguide (transverse electric) and surface plasmon polariton (transverse
magnetic) modes in h-BN/SiO2/Si and Ag/h-BN stacks, respectively. We determine
the dispersion of these modes and use this relationship to extract anisotropic
refractive indices of h-BN flakes. In the wavelength interval 550-700 nm, the
in-plane and out-of-plane refractive indices are in the range 1.98-2.12 and
1.45-2.12, respectively. Our approach of using near-field scanning optical
microscopy allows for direct study of interaction between light and
two-dimensional van der Waals materials and heterostructures."  2017-06-02  "['Wintz', 'Chaudhary', 'Wang', 'Jauregui', 'Ambrosio', 'Tamagnone', 'Zhu', 'Devlin', 'Crossno', 'Pistunova', 'Watanabe', 'Taniguchi', 'Kim', 'Capasso']"
1706.00710 "Experimental confirmation of the negentropic character of the
  diffraction polarization of diffuse radiation" "physics.optics cond-mat.stat-mech" "In the course of analyzing the axiomatic principles on which statistical
physics is based, the assumption of the limited correctness of the postulate
that all allowable microstates of a closed system are equally probable was
checked. This article reports the results of a study of a quasi-equivalent
system within which isotropic radiation interacts with a phase diffraction
grating. A simulated computer model of such interaction showed that anisotropic
polarization must arise in the diffracted radiation, which reduces the
Boltzmann entropy of the entire system and allows an external observer to
obtain information on the grating's surface topology. This prediction was
confirmed when it was experimentally checked directly on actual apparatus."  2017-06-02  ['Savukov']
1706.00714 "Metastable decoherence-free subspaces and electromagnetically induced
  transparency in interacting many-body systems" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.atom-ph physics.optics quant-ph" "We investigate the dynamics of a generic interacting many-body system under
conditions of electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT). This problem is
of current relevance due to its connection to non-linear optical media realized
by Rydberg atoms. In an interacting system the structure of the dynamics and
the approach to the stationary state becomes far more complex than in the case
of conventional EIT. In particular, we discuss the emergence of a metastable
decoherence free subspace whose dimension grows linearly in the number of
atoms. On approach to stationarity this leads to a slow dynamics which renders
the typical assumption of fast relaxation invalid. We derive analytically the
effective non-equilibrium dynamics in the decoherence free subspace which
features coherent and dissipative two-body interactions. We discuss the use of
this scenario for the preparation of collective entangled dark states of
spin-waves and the realization of general unitary dynamics within the spin-wave
subspace."  2017-06-02 2017-06-06 "['Macieszczak', 'Zhou', 'Hofferberth', 'Garrahan', 'Li', 'Lesanovsky']"
1706.00735 "A new class of ferromagnetic semiconductors with high Curie temperatures" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Ferromagnetic semiconductors (FMSs), which have the properties and
functionalities of both semiconductors and ferromagnets, provide fascinating
opportunities for basic research in condensed matter physics and device
applications. Over the past two decades, however, intensive studies on various
FMS materials, inspired by the influential mean-field Zener (MFZ) model have
failed to realise reliable FMSs that have a high Curie temperature (Tc > 300
K), good compatibility with semiconductor electronics, and characteristics
superior to those of their non-magnetic host semiconductors. Here, we
demonstrate a new n type Fe-doped narrow-gap III-V FMS, (In,Fe)Sb, in which
ferromagnetic order is induced by electron carriers, and its Tc is unexpectedly
high, reaching ~335 K at a modest Fe concentration of 16%. Furthermore, we show
that by utilizing the large anomalous Hall effect of (In,Fe)Sb at room
temperature, it is possible to obtain a Hall sensor with a very high
sensitivity that surpasses that of the best commercially available InSb Hall
sensor devices. Our results reveal a new design rule of FMSs that is not
expected from the conventional MFZ model. (This work was presented at the JSAP
Spring meeting, presentation No. E15a-501-2:
https://confit.atlas.jp/guide/event/jsap2017s/subject/15a-501-2/advanced)"  2017-06-02  "['Tu', 'Hai', 'Anh', 'Tanaka']"
1706.00747 "Granular Motor in the Non-Brownian Limit" cond-mat.stat-mech "In this work we experimentally study a granular rotor which is similar to the
famous Smoluchowski-Feynman device and which consists of a rotor with four
vanes immersed in a granular gas. Each side of the vanes can be composed of two
different materials, creating a rotational asymmetry and turning the rotor into
a ratchet. When the granular temperature is high, the rotor is in movement all
the time, and its angular velocity distribution is well described by the
Brownian Limit discussed in previous works. When the granular temperature is
lowered considerably we enter the so-called Single Kick Limit, where collisions
occur rarely and the unavoidable external friction causes the rotor to be at
rest for most of the time. We find that the existing models are not capable of
adequately describing the experimentally observed distribution in this limit.
We trace back this discrepancy to the non-constancy of the deceleration due to
external friction and show that incorporating this effect into the existing
models leads to full agreement with our experiments. Subsequently, we extend
this model to describe the angular velocity distribution of the rotor for any
temperature of the gas, and obtain a very good agreement between the model and
experimental data." 10.1088/1742-5468/2016/04/043206 2017-06-02  "['Oyarte-Gálvez', 'van der Meer']"
1706.00755 "Evaluating the System Compliance in Testing Carbon Nanotube Fibers" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "System compliances of two testing machines (Keysight T150 and Instron 3365)
were studied for the tensile testing of carbon nanotube (CNT) fibers. Due to
the different gripping methods, the T150's system compliance was nearly zero,
while that of the Instron was nonnegligible. By analyzing the data dispersion
with the Weibull theory, a safe gauge length of >10 mm was suggested for CNT
fibers. Therefore, a standard test procedure should involve the compliance
evaluation, choice of gauge length, and Weibull statistical analysis."  2017-06-02  "['Jiang', 'Zhang', 'Zhao', 'Zou', 'Zhang']"
1706.00762 "Conductance oscillations in a single superconducting junction to a
  three-dimensional $Bi_2Te_3$ topological insulator" cond-mat.mes-hall "We experimentally investigate Andreev transport through a single junction
between an s-wave indium superconductor and a thick film of a three-dimensional
$Bi_2Te_3$ topological insulator. We study $Bi_2Te_3$ samples with different
bulk and surface characteristics, where the presence of a topological surface
state is confirmed by direct ARPES measurements. All the junctions demonstrate
Andreev transport within the superconducting gap. For junctions with
transparent $In-Bi_2Te_3$ interfaces we find a number of nearly periodic
conductance oscillations, which are accompanied by zero-bias conductance
anomaly. Both effects disappear above the superconducting transition or for
resistive junctions. We interpret the oscillations in transparent junctions as
proximity-induced geometrical effects in transport to bulk $Bi_2Te_3$ carriers,
while transport to the topological surface state dominates at high scattering
at the interface."  2017-06-02  "['Shvetsov', 'Kostarev', 'Kononov', 'Golyashov', 'Kokh', 'Tereshchenko', 'Deviatov']"
1706.00772 "Quenching current by flux-flow instability in iron-chalcogenides thin
  films" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "The stability against quench is one of the main issue to be pursued in a
superconducting material which should be able to perform at very high levels of
current densities. Here we focus on the connection between the critical current
$I_c$ and the quenching current $I^*$ associated to the so-called flux-flow
instability phenomenon, which sets in as an abrupt transition from the flux
flow state to the normal state. To this purpose, we analyze several
current-voltage characteristics of three types of iron-based thin films,
acquired at different temperature and applied magnetic field values. For these
samples, we discuss the impact of a possible coexistence of intrinsic
electronic mechanisms and extrinsic thermal effects on the quenching current
dependence upon the applied magnetic field. The differences between the
quenching current and the critical current are reported also in the case of
predominant intrinsic mechanisms. Carrying out a comparison with
high-temperature cuprate superconductors, we suggest which material can be the
best trade-off between maximum operating temperature, higher upper critical
field and stability under high current bias." 10.1109/TASC.2016.2633407 2017-06-02  "['Leo', 'Grimaldi', 'Guarino', 'Avitabile', 'Marra', 'Citro', 'Braccini', 'Bellingeri', 'Ferdeghini', 'Pace', 'Nigro']"
1706.00778 "Hydrodynamic relaxations in the original dissipative particle dynamics
  model" cond-mat.stat-mech "In this paper we study relaxation phenomena in the original dissipative
particle dynamics (o-DPD) model. Using fluctuating hydrodynamics as the
framework of the investigation, we focus on the collective transverse and
longitudinal dynamics. It is shown that classical hydrodynamic theory predicts
the transverse dynamics at relative low temperatures very well when compared to
simulation data; the theory fails for high temperatures, however. This is
consistent with the fact that for high temperatures the o-DPD model has
gas-like behavior for which classical hydrodynamics is not applicable. The
relaxation time for the transverse dynamics is consistent with the viscosity
derived from stress correlations that include conservative forces, but neglect
random and dissipative contributions. For high temperatures, the spectrum for
the longitudinal dynamics is dominated by the Brillouin peak, which contrasts
the spectrum at lower temperatures where the Rayleigh peak is clearly visible.
The latter is the behavior observed in liquid-phase Lennard-Jones systems, and,
importantly, it means that different underlying processes of the model are
governing the dynamics depending on the temperature. Finally, the self-part of
the intermediate scattering function is compared to the predictions of the
diffusion equation; this also reveals that single particle dynamics are not
correctly captured by the continuum theory at high temperatures. In conclusion,
we recommend that in order for the o-DPD model to be applicable to study
hydrodynamic phenomena, the system must be away from the gas-like region in
phase space, that is, the Schmidt number must be well above unity."  2017-06-02  "['Hansen', 'Greenfield', 'Dyre']"
1706.00779 "Brownian motion: from kinetics to hydrodynamics" "cond-mat.stat-mech physics.chem-ph physics.flu-dyn" "Brownian motion has served as a pilot of studies in diffusion and other
transport phenomena for over a century. The foundation of Brownian motion, laid
by Einstein, has generally been accepted to be far from being complete since
the late 1960s, because it fails to take important hydrodynamic effects into
account. The hydrodynamic effects yield a time dependence of the diffusion
coefficient, and this extends the ordinary hydrodynamics. However, the time
profile of the diffusion coefficient across the kinetic and hydrodynamic
regions is still absent, which prohibits a complete description of Brownian
motion in the entire course of time. Here we close this gap. We manage to
separate the diffusion process into two parts: a kinetic process governed by
the kinetics based on molecular chaos approximation and a hydrodynamics process
described by linear hydrodynamics. We find the analytical solution of vortex
backflow of hydrodynamic modes triggered by a tagged particle. Coupling it to
the kinetic process we obtain explicit expressions of the velocity
autocorrelation function and the time profile of diffusion coefficient. This
leads to an accurate account of both kinetic and hydrodynamic effects. Our
theory is applicable for fluid and Brownian particles, even of irregular-shaped
objects, in very general environments ranging from dilute gases to dense
liquids. The analytical results are in excellent agreement with numerical
experiments."  2017-06-02  "['Zhao', 'Zhao']"
1706.00781 "Ultrahigh magnetic field spectroscopy reveals the band structure of the
  3D topological insulator Bi$_2$Se$_3$" cond-mat.mes-hall "We have investigated the band structure at the $\Gamma$ point of the
three-dimensional (3D) topological insulator Bi$_2$Se$_3$ using
magneto-spectroscopy over a wide range of energies ($0.55-2.2$\,eV) and in
ultrahigh magnetic fields up to 150\,T. At such high energies ($E>0.6$\,eV) the
parabolic approximation for the massive Dirac fermions breaks down and the
Landau level dispersion becomes nonlinear. At even higher energies around 0.99
and 1.6 eV, new additional strong absorptions are observed with a temperature
and magnetic-field dependence which suggest that they originate from higher
band gaps. Spin orbit splittings for the further lying conduction and valence
bands are found to be 0.196 and 0.264 eV."  2017-06-02  "['Miyata', 'Yang', 'Surrente', 'Drachenko', 'Maude', 'Portugall', 'Duffy', 'Hesjedal', 'Plochocka', 'Nicholas']"
1706.00784 "Steady diffusion in a drift field: a comparison of large deviation
  techniques and multiple-scale analysis" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.soft q-bio.QM" "A particle with internal unobserved states diffusing in a force field will
generally display effective advection-diffusion. The drift velocity is
proportional to the mobility averaged over the internal states, or effective
mobility, while the effective diffusion has two terms. One is of the
equilibrium type and satisfies an Einstein relation with the effective mobility
while the other is quadratic in the applied force. In this contribution we
present two new methods to obtain these results, on the one hand using large
deviation techniques, and on the other by a multiple-scale analysis, and
compare the two. We consider both systems with discrete internal states and
continuous internal states. We show that the auxiliary equations in the
multiple-scale analysis can also be derived in second-order perturbation theory
in a large deviation theory of a generating function (discrete internal states)
or generating functional (continuous internal states). We discuss that
measuring the two components of the effective diffusion give a way to determine
kinetic rates from only first and second moments of the displacement in steady
state."  2017-06-02  "['Aurell', 'Bo']"
1706.00788 "Dynamics of many-body localization in the presence of particle loss" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el" "At long times residual couplings to the environment become relevant even in
the most isolated experiments, creating a crucial difficulty for the study of
fundamental aspects of many-body dynamics. A particular example is many-body
localization in a cold-atom setting, where incoherent photon scattering
introduces both dephasing and particle loss. Whereas dephasing has been studied
in detail and is known to destroy localization already on the level of
non-interacting particles, the effect of particle loss is less well understood.
A difficulty arises due to the `non-local' nature of the loss process,
complicating standard numerical tools using matrix product decomposition.
Utilizing symmetries of the Lindbladian dynamics, we investigate the particle
loss on both the dynamics of observables, as well as the structure of the
density matrix and the individual states. We find that particle loss in the
presence of interactions leads to dissipation and a strong suppression of the
(operator space) entanglement entropy. Our approach allows for the study of the
interplay of dephasing and loss for pure and mixed initial states to long
times, which is important for future experiments using controlled coupling of
the environment."  2017-06-02  "['van Nieuwenburg', 'Malo', 'Daley', 'Fischer']"
1706.00790 "Long-lived domain wall plasmons in gapped bilayer graphene" cond-mat.mes-hall "Topological domain walls in dual-gated gapped bilayer graphene host edge
states that are gate- tunable and valley polarized. Here we predict that
plasmonic collective modes can propagate along these topological domain walls
even at zero bulk density, and possess a markedly different character from that
of bulk plasmons. Strikingly, domain wall plasmons are extremely long-lived,
with plasmon lifetimes that can be orders of magnitude larger than the
transport scattering time in the bulk. While most pronounced at low
temperatures, long domain wall plasmon lifetimes persist even at room
temperature with values up to a few picoseconds. Domain wall plasmons possess a
rich phenomenology including a wide range of frequencies (up to the
mid-infrared), tunable sub-wavelength electro-magnetic confinement lengths, as
well as a valley polarization for forward/backward propagating modes. Its
unusual features render them a new tool for realizing low-dissipation
plasmonics that transcend the restrictions of the bulk."  2017-06-02  "['Hasdeo', 'Song']"
1706.00801 "Kelvin-Helmholtz instability on graphene" "cond-mat.soft physics.comp-ph physics.flu-dyn" "We provide numerical evidence that a Kelvin-Helmholtz instability can occur
in the Dirac fluid of electrons in graphene and can be observed in current
experiments. Since this instability appears very easily in the presence of a
constriction, it can even accidentally affect measurements on the time scales
of nanoseconds. A possible realization with a constriction is proposed to
produce and detect the instability by measuring the electric potential
difference between contact points located before and after the constriction. To
perform the simulations, a new lattice-Boltzmann method able to recover the
full dissipation in a relativistic fluid is developed, which gives a more
accurate result for instabilities and turbulent effects."  2017-06-02  "['Coelho', 'Mendoza', 'Doria', 'Herrmann']"
1706.00818 "Solving the Quantum Many-Body Problem with Bohmian Trajectories" "quant-ph cond-mat.quant-gas" "Bohmian mechanics is an interpretation of quantum mechanics that describes
the motion of quantum particles with an ensemble of deterministic trajectories.
Several attempts have been made to utilize Bohmian trajectories as a
computational tool to simulate quantum systems consisting of many particles, a
very demanding computational task. In this paper, we present a novel ab-initio
approach to solve the many-body problem for bosonic systems by evolving a
system of one-particle wavefunctions representing pilot waves that guide the
Bohmian trajectories of the quantum particles. The method is used to study the
breathing dynamics and ground state properties in a system of many interacting
bosons. The precision of our method is benchmarked aginst the numerically exact
multiconfigurational time-dependent Hartree method for Bosons."  2017-06-02  "['Elsayed', 'Mølmer', 'Madsen']"
1706.00823 "Ultracold Molecule Assembly with Photonic Crystals" "physics.atom-ph cond-mat.quant-gas physics.chem-ph quant-ph" "Photoassociation (PA) is a powerful technique to synthesize molecules
directly and continuously from cold and ultracold atoms into deeply bound
molecular states. In freespace, however, PA efficiency is constrained by the
number of spontaneous decay channels linking the initial excited molecular
state to a sea of final (meta)stable rovibronic levels. Here, we propose a
novel scheme based on molecules strongly coupled to a guided photonic mode in a
photonic crystal waveguide that turns PA into a powerful tool for near
deterministic formation of ultracold molecules in their ground rovibrational
level. Our example shows a potential ground state molecule production
efficiency $> 90\%$, and a saturation rate $>10^6$ molecules per second. By
combining state-of-the-art cold atomic and molecular physics with nanophotonic
engineering, our scheme presents a novel experimental package for trapping,
cooling, and optical manipulation of ultracold molecules, opening up new
possibilities in the direction of ultracold chemistry and quantum information."  2017-06-02  "['Pérez-Ríos', 'Kim', 'Hung']"
1706.00828 "A non-singular theory of dislocations in anisotropic crystals" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We develop a non-singular theory of three-dimensional dislocation loops in a
particular version of Mindlin's anisotropic gradient elasticity with up to six
length scale parameters. The theory is systematically developed as a
generalization of the classical anisotropic theory in the framework of
linearized incompatible elasticity. The non-singular version of all key
equations of anisotropic dislocation theory are derived as line integrals,
including the Burgers displacement equation with isolated solid angle, the
Peach-Koehler stress equation, the Mura-Willis equation for the elastic
distortion, and the Peach-Koehler force. The expression for the interaction
energy between two dislocation loops as a double line integral is obtained
directly, without the use of a stress function. It is shown that all the
elastic fields are non-singular, and that they converge to their classical
counterparts a few characteristic lengths away from the dislocation core. In
practice, the non-singular fields can be obtained from the classical ones by
replacing the classical (singular) anisotropic Green's tensor with the
non-singular anisotropic Green's tensor derived by \cite{Lazar:2015ja}. The
elastic solution is valid for arbitrary anisotropic media. In addition to the
classical anisotropic elastic constants, the non-singular Green's tensor
depends on a second order symmetric tensor of length scale parameters modeling
a weak non-locality, whose structure depends on the specific class of crystal
symmetry. The anisotropic Helmholtz operator defined by such tensor admits a
Green's function which is used as the spreading function for the Burgers vector
density. As a consequence, the Burgers vector density spreads differently in
different crystal structures."  2017-06-02  "['Po', 'Lazar', 'Admal', 'Ghoniem']"
1706.00836 "Emergence and evolution of $k$-gap in spectra of liquid and
  supercritical states" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.stat-mech" "Fundamental understanding of strongly-interacting systems necessarily
involves collective modes, but their nature and evolution is not generally
understood in dynamically disordered and strongly-interacting systems such as
liquids and supercritical fluids. We report the results of extensive molecular
dynamics simulations and provide direct evidence that liquids develop a gap in
solid-like transverse spectrum in the reciprocal space, with no propagating
modes between zero and a threshold value. In addition to the liquid state, this
result importantly applies to the supercritical state of matter. We show that
the emerging gap increases with the inverse of liquid relaxation time and
discuss how the gap affects properties of liquid and supercritical states." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.215502 2017-05-31  "['Yang', 'Dove', 'Brazhkin', 'Trachenko']"
1706.00838 "Universal Scaling Laws for Correlation Spreading in Quantum Systems with
  Short- and Long-Range Interactions" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.quant-gas hep-th quant-ph" "We study the spreading of information in a wide class of quantum systems,
with variable-range interactions. We show that, after a quench, it generally
features a double structure, whose scaling laws are related to a set of
universal microscopic exponents that we determine. When the system supports
excitations with a finite maximum velocity, the spreading shows a twofold
ballistic behavior. While the correlation edge spreads with a velocity equal to
twice the maximum group velocity, the dominant correlation maxima propagate
with a different velocity that we derive. When the maximum group velocity
diverges, as realizable with long-range interactions, the correlation edge
features a slower-than-ballistic motion. The motion of the maxima is, instead,
either faster-than-ballistic, for gapless systems, or ballistic, for gapped
systems. The phenomenology that we unveil here provides a unified framework,
which encompasses existing experimental observations with ultracold atoms and
ions. It also paves the way to simple extensions of those experiments to
observe the structures we describe in their full generality."  2017-06-02  "['Cevolani', 'Despres', 'Carleo', 'Tagliacozzo', 'Sanchez-Palencia']"
1706.00847 "Dirac-Electrons-Mediated Magnetic Proximity Effect in Topological
  Insulator / Magnetic Insulator Heterostructures" cond-mat.mes-hall "The possible realization of dissipationless chiral edge current in a
topological insulator / magnetic insulator heterostructure is based on the
condition that the magnetic proximity exchange coupling at the interface is
dominated by the Dirac surface states of the topological insulator. Here we
report a polarized neutron reflectometry observation of Dirac electrons
mediated magnetic proximity effect in a bulk-insulating topological insulator
(Bi$_{0.2}$Sb$_{0.8}$)$_{2}$Te$_{3}$ / magnetic insulator EuS heterostructure.
We are able to maximize the proximity induced magnetism by applying an
electrical back gate to tune the Fermi level of topological insulator to be
close to the charge neutral point. A phenomenological model based on
diamagnetic screening is developed to explain the suppressed proximity induced
magnetism at high carrier density. Our work paves the way to utilize the
magnetic proximity effect at the topological insulator/magnetic insulator
hetero-interface for low-power spintronic applications."  2017-06-02  "['Li', 'Song', 'Zhao', 'Garlow', 'Liu', 'Wu', 'Zhu', 'Moodera', 'Chan', 'Chen', 'Chang']"
1706.00859 "Bose-Einstein condensates in a ring potential: Time-evolution beyond the
  mean-field approximation" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study the temporal evolution of a Bose-Einstein condensate with a small
number of atoms $N$, which is confined in a ring potential. Assuming that
initially the system is in a solitary-wave solution of the corresponding
mean-field problem, we identify significant differences in the time evolution
of the density distribution of the atoms when it instead is evaluated with the
many-body Schr\""odinger equation. Three characteristic timescales are derived:
the first is the period of rotation of the wave around the ring, the second is
associated with a ""decay"" of the density variation, and the third is associated
with periodic ""collapses"" and ""revivals"" of the density variations, with a
factor of $\sqrt N$ separating each of them. The last two timescales tend to
infinity in the appropriate limit of large $N$, in agreement with the
mean-field approximation."  2017-06-02  "['Eriksson', 'Bengtsson', 'Karabulut', 'Kavoulakis', 'Reimann']"
1706.00864 "Persistent structures in a 3D dynamical system with solid and fluid
  regions" cond-mat.soft "Remarkably persistent mixing and non-mixing regions (islands) are observed to
coexist in a three-dimensional dynamical system where randomness is expected.
The track of an x-ray opaque particle in a spherical shell half-filled with dry
non-cohesive particles and periodically rotated about two axes reveals
interspersed structures that are spatially complex and vary non-trivially with
the rotation angles. The geometric skeleton of the structures forms from the
subtle interplay between fluid-like mixing by stretching-and-folding, and
solids mixing by cutting-and-shuffling, which is described by the mathematics
of piecewise isometries. In the physical system, larger islands predicted by
the cutting-and-shuffling model alone can persist despite the presence of
stretching-and-folding flows and particle-collision-driven diffusion, while
predicted smaller islands are not observed. By uncovering the synergy of
simultaneous fluid and solid mixing, we point the way to a more fundamental
understanding of advection driven mixing in materials with both solid and
flowing regions."  2017-06-02  "['Zaman', 'Yu', 'Park', 'Ottino', 'Lueptow', 'Umbanhowar']"
1706.00866 "Realization of hydrodynamic experiments on quasi-2D liquid crystal films
  in microgravity" cond-mat.soft "Freely suspended films of smectic liquid crystals are unique examples of
quasi two-dimensional fluids. Mechanically stable and with quantized thickness
of the order of only a few molecular layers, smectic films are ideal systems
for studying fundamental fluid physics, such as collective molecular ordering,
defect and fluctuation phenomena, hydrodynamics, and nonequilibrium behavior in
two dimensions (2D), including serving as models of complex biological
membranes. Smectic films can be drawn across openings in planar supports
resulting in thin, meniscus-bounded membranes, and can also be prepared as
bubbles, either supported on an inflation tube or floating freely. The
quantized layering renders smectic films uniquely useful in 2D fluid physics.
The OASIS team has pursued a variety of ground-based and microgravity
applications of thin liquid crystal films to fluid structure and hydrodynamic
problems in 2D and quasi-2D systems. Parabolic flights and sounding rocket
experiments were carried out in order to explore the shape evolution of free
floating smectic bubbles, and to probe Marangoni effects in flat films. The
dynamics of emulsions of smectic islands (thicker regions on thin background
films) and of microdroplet inclusions in spherical films, as well as
thermocapillary effects, were studied over extended periods within the OASIS
(Observation and Analysis of Smectic Islands in Space) project on the
International Space Station. We summarize the technical details of the OASIS
hardware and give preliminary examples of key observations." 10.1016/j.asr.2017.04.014 2017-06-02  "['Clark', 'Eremin', 'Glaser', 'Hall', 'Harth', 'Klopp', 'Maclennan', 'Park', 'Stannarius', 'Tin', 'Thurmes', 'Trittel']"
1706.00874 "Comment on the paper entitled Limited surface mobility inhibits stable
  glass formation for 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, published in J. Chem. Phys. 146,
  203317 (2017)" cond-mat.soft "The authors of the paper, Limited surface mobility inhibits stable glass
formation for 2-ethyl-1-hexanol, J. Chem. Phys. 146, 203317 (2017), encountered
two problems in considering applicability of the Coupling Model. We show in
this Comment that these problems do not exist."  2017-06-02  "['Ngai', 'Capaccioli']"
1706.00883 "Spectral Simplicity of Apparent Complexity, Part II: Exact Complexities
  and Complexity Spectra" "nlin.CD cond-mat.stat-mech cs.IT math.DS math.FA math.IT" "The meromorphic functional calculus developed in Part I overcomes the
nondiagonalizability of linear operators that arises often in the temporal
evolution of complex systems and is generic to the metadynamics of predicting
their behavior. Using the resulting spectral decomposition, we derive
closed-form expressions for correlation functions, finite-length Shannon
entropy-rate approximates, asymptotic entropy rate, excess entropy, transient
information, transient and asymptotic state uncertainty, and synchronization
information of stochastic processes generated by finite-state hidden Markov
models. This introduces analytical tractability to investigating information
processing in discrete-event stochastic processes, symbolic dynamics, and
chaotic dynamical systems. Comparisons reveal mathematical similarities between
complexity measures originally thought to capture distinct informational and
computational properties. We also introduce a new kind of spectral analysis via
coronal spectrograms and the frequency-dependent spectra of past-future mutual
information. We analyze a number of examples to illustrate the methods,
emphasizing processes with multivariate dependencies beyond pairwise
correlation. An appendix presents spectral decomposition calculations for one
example in full detail."  2017-06-02  "['Riechers', 'Crutchfield']"
1706.00892 "Finite-time thermodynamic uncertainty relation do not hold for
  discrete-time Markov process" cond-mat.stat-mech "Discrete-time counterpart of thermodynamic uncertainty relation (conjectured
in P. Pietzonka, et.al., arXiv:1702.07699 (2017)) with finite time interval is
considered. We show that this relation do not hold by constructing a concrete
counterexample to this. Our finding suggests that the proof of thermodynamic
uncertainty relation with finite time interval, if true, should strongly rely
on the fact that the time is continuous."  2017-06-02  ['Shiraishi']
1706.00902 "Generalized Fit for Asymptotic Predictions of Heavy-Tail Experimental
  Transients" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.soft" "Transient responses in disordered systems typically show a heavy-tail
relaxation behavior: the decay time constant increases as time increases,
revealing a spectral distribution of time constants. The asymptotic value of
such transients is notoriously difficult to experimentally measure due to the
increasing decay time-scale. However, if the heavy-tail transient is plotted
versus log-time, a reduced set of data around the inflection point of such a
plot is sufficient for an accurate fit. From a derivative plot in log-time, the
peak height, position, line width, and, most importantly, skewness are all that
is needed to accurately predict the asymptotic value of various heavy-tail
decay models to within less than a percent. This curve fitting strategy reduces
by orders of magnitude the amount of experimental data required, and clearly
identifies a threshold below which the amount of data is insufficient to
distinguish various models. The skew normal spectral fit and dispersive
diffusion transient fit are proposed as four-parameter fits, with the latter
including the stretched exponential as a limiting case. The line fit and
asymptotic prediction are demonstrated using experimental transient responses
in previously published amorphous silicon and amorphous InGaZnO data."  2017-06-03  "['Luo', 'Grayson']"
1706.00903 "Large spontaneous exchange bias in a weak ferromagnet Pb6Ni9(TeO6)5" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We report the magnetic and dielectric behavior of Pb6Ni9(TeO6)5, a new
compound comprising the honeycomb-like layers of S=1 spins, through detailed
structural, magnetic and dielectric investigation. An antiferromagnetic-type
transition at 25 K (TN) with weak-ferromagnetic behavior is revealed.
Interestingly, a large value of coercive field of 1.32 T at 2 K is observed.
The isothermal magnetization after zero-field-cooled condition, it exhibits the
presence of large spontaneous exchange bias (SEB) with a magnitude of 0.19 T at
2 K; which is rare in single bulk materials, especially without external
doping. The value of |HEB| further enhances to 0.24 T under 16 T field-cooled
condition, confirming the presence of large exchange bias in the material. In
addition, the dielectric constant shows an anomaly at the onset of TN,
indicating the presence of magnetodielectric coupling."  2017-06-03  "['Koteswararao', 'Chakrabarty', 'Basu', 'Hazra', 'Srinivasarao', 'Paulose', 'Srinath']"
1706.00910 "Bilinear log n - log p relation and critical power-law grain size
  distribution of crushable aggregates under compression and shear" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.geo-ph" "In order to investigate the relation between the bulk plastic compression
behavior and the evolution of grain size distribution (GSD) due to grain
crushing under high-pressure compression and shear, we performed three types of
loading experiments; single grain crushing (SGC) test, one-dimensional
compression (ODC) test and rotary shear (RS) tests. The materials used are an
angular mountain silica sand and a round river silica sand. The major findings
are summarized as follows: (1) The SGC tests reveal that the Weibull model is
successfully applied with the modulus m=2 for single grain crushing stress. (2)
In the ODC tests, the relation between the applied pressure, p, and the
resulting porosity, n, fits better on a bi-linear model in a log n - log p plot
than in the classical e-log p plot, where e is the void ratio. (3) Both in the
ODC and the RS tests, the GSD converges into a power-law (fractal) distribution
with the exponent (fractal dimension) of about -2.5, which is close to the one
for Apollonian sphere packing, -2.47 (Borkovec et al., 1994). (4) The proposed
recursive pore filling model successfully describes the log n - log p relation
in the ODC test and log n - log relation, where is the shear strain, in the RS
test in a consistent manner."  2017-06-03  "['Sato', 'Kitajima', 'Takahashi', 'Matsushima']"
1706.00913 "Reduced work function of graphene by metal adatoms" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In this paper, the work function of graphene doped by different metal adatoms
and at different concentrations is investigated. Density functional theory is
used to maximize the reduction of the work function. In general, the work
function drops significantly before reaching saturation. For example in the
case of Cs doping, the work function saturates at 2.05 eV with a modest 8 %
doping. The adsorption of different concentrations on metal adatoms on graphene
is also studied. Our calculations show that the adatoms prefer to relax at
hollow sites. The transfer of electron from metallic dopants to the graphene
for all the studied systems shifts the Fermi energy levels above the
Dirac-point and the doped graphenes become metallic. The value of Fermi energy
shifts depends on the type of metallic dopants and its concentrations. A detail
analysis of the electronic structure in terms of band structure and density of
states, absorption energy, and charge transfer for each adatom-graphene system
is presented." 10.1016/j.apsusc.2016.10.097 2017-06-03  "['Legesse', 'Mellouhi', 'Bentria', 'Madjet', 'Fisher', 'Kais', 'Alharbi']"
1706.00926 "Probing the bond order wave phase transitions of the ionic Hubbard model
  by superlattice modulation spectroscopy" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.str-el" "An exotic phase, the bond order wave, characterized by the spontaneous
dimerization of the hopping, has been predicted to exist sandwiched between the
band and Mott insulators in systems described by the ionic Hubbard model.
Despite growing theoretical evidences, this phase still evades experimental
detection. Given the recent realization of the ionic Hubbard model in ultracold
atomic gases, we propose here to detect the bond order wave using superlattice
modulation spectroscopy. We demonstrate, with the help of time-dependent
density-matrix renormalization group and bosonization, that this spectroscopic
approach reveals characteristics of both the Ising and Kosterlitz-Thouless
transitions signaling the presence of the bond order wave phase. This scheme
also provides insights into the excitation spectra of both the band and Mott
insulators."  2017-06-03  "['Loida', 'Bernier', 'Citro', 'Orignac', 'Kollath']"
1706.00945 "Tailoring topological states in silicene using different
  halogen-passivated Si(111) substrates" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We investigate the band structure and topological phases of silicene embedded
on halogenated Si(111) surface, by virtue of density functional theory and
tight-binding calculations.Our results show that the Dirac character of low
energy excitations in silicene is almost preserved in the presence of silicon
substrate passivated by various halogens. Nevertheless, the combined effects of
charge transfer into the substrate, stretching of bonds between silicon atoms,
and symmetry breaking which originates from van der Waals interaction, result
in a gap $E_{g1}$ in the spectrum of the embedded silicene. We further take the
spin-orbit interaction into account and obtain its strength and the resulting
enhancement in the gap $E_{g2}=2\lambda$. Both $E_{g1}$ and $E_{g2}$ which
contribute to the total gap, vary significantly when different halogen atoms
are used for the passivation of the Si surface and for the case of iodine, they
have very large values of $70$ and $23$ meV, respectively. To examine the
topological properties, we calculate the projected band structure of silicene
from which the tight binding parameters of the low-energy effective Hamiltonian
are obtained by fitting. Our results based on Berry curvature and
$\mathbb{Z}_2$ invariant reveals that silicene on halogenated Si substrates has
a topological insulating state which can survive even at room temperature for
the substrate with iodine and bromine at the surface. Similar to the free
standing silicene, by applying a perpendicular electric field and at a certain
critical value which again depends on the type of halogens, the gap closes and
silicene undergoes a transition to a trivial insulating state. As a key
finding, we see that the presence of halogenated substrate except for the case
of fluorine enhances the robustness of the topological phases against the
vertical electric field and most probably other external perturbations."  2017-06-03  "['Derakhshan', 'Moghaddam', 'Ceresoli']"
1706.00963 "Electronic in-plane symmetry breaking at field-tuned quantum criticality
  in CeRhIn5" cond-mat.str-el "Electronic nematics are exotic states of matter where electronic interactions
break a rotational symmetry of the underlying lattice, in analogy to the
directional alignment without translational order in nematic liquid crystals.
Intriguingly such phases appear in the copper- and iron-based superconductors,
and their role in establishing high-temperature superconductivity remains an
open question. Nematicity may take an active part, cooperating or competing
with superconductivity, or may appear accidentally in such systems. Here we
present experimental evidence for a phase of nematic character in the heavy
fermion superconductor CeRhIn5. We observe a field-induced breaking of the
electronic tetragonal symmetry of in the vicinity of an antiferromagnetic (AFM)
quantum phase transition at Hc~50T. This phase appears in out-of-plane fields
of H*~28T and is characterized by substantial in-plane resistivity anisotropy.
The anisotropy can be aligned by a small in-plane field component, with no
apparent connection to the underlying crystal structure. Furthermore no
anomalies are observed in the magnetic torque, suggesting the absence of
metamagnetic transitions in this field range. These observations are indicative
of an electronic nematic character of the high field state in CeRhIn5. The
appearance of nematic behavior in a phenotypical heavy fermion superconductor
highlights the interrelation of nematicity and unconventional
superconductivity, suggesting nematicity to be a commonality in such materials."  2017-06-03  "['Ronning', 'Helm', 'Shirer', 'Bachmann', 'Balicas', 'Chan', 'Ramshaw', 'McDonald', 'Balakirev', 'Jaime', 'Bauer', 'Moll']"
1706.01003 "InP/InAsP Nanowire-based Spatially Separate Absorption and
  Multiplication Avalanche Photodetectors" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "Avalanche photodetectors (APDs) are key components in optical communication
systems due to their increased photocurrent gain and short response time as
compared to conventional photodetectors. A detector design where the
multiplication region is implemented in a large bandgap material is desired to
avoid detrimental Zener tunneling leakage currents, a concern otherwise in
smaller bandgap materials required for absorption at 1.3/1.55 um.
Self-assembled III-V semiconductor nanowires offer key advantages such as
enhanced absorption due to optical resonance effects, strain-relaxed
heterostructures and compatibility with main-stream silicon technology. Here,
we present electrical and optical characteristics of single InP and InP/InAsP
nanowire APD structures. Temperature-dependent breakdown characteristics of
p+-n-n+ InP nanowire devices were investigated first. A clear trap-induced
shift in breakdown voltage was inferred from I-V measurements. An improved
contact formation to the p+-InP segment was observed upon annealing, and its
effect on breakdown characteristics was investigated. The bandgap in the
absorption region was subsequently varied from pure InP to InAsP to realize
spatially separate absorption and multiplication APDs in heterostructure
nanowires. In contrast to the homojunction APDs, no trap-induced shifts were
observed for the heterostructure APDs. A gain of 12 was demonstrated for
selective optical excitation of the InAsP segment. Additional electron
beam-induced current measurements were carried out to investigate the effect of
local excitation along the nanowire on the I-V characteristics. Our results
provide important insight for optimization of avalanche photodetector devices
based on III-V nanowires."  2017-06-03  "['Jain', 'Heurlin', 'Barrigon', 'Bosco', 'Nowzari', 'Shroff', 'Boix', 'Karimi', 'Jam', 'Berg', 'Samuelson', 'Borgström', 'Capasso', 'Pettersson']"
1706.01007 "Negative spin exchange in a multielectron quantum dot" cond-mat.mes-hall "By operating a one-electron quantum dot (fabricated between a multielectron
dot and a one-electron reference dot) as a spectroscopic probe, we study the
spin properties of a gate-controlled multielectron GaAs quantum dot at the
transition between odd and even occupation number. We observe that the
multielectron groundstate transitions from spin-1/2-like to singlet-like to
triplet-like as we increase the detuning towards the next higher charge state.
The sign reversal in the inferred exchange energy persists at zero magnetic
field, and the exchange strength is tunable by gate voltages and in-plane
magnetic fields. Complementing spin leakage spectroscopy data, the inspection
of coherent multielectron spin exchange oscillations provides further evidence
for the sign reversal and, inferentially, for the importance of non-trivial
multielectron spin exchange correlations."  2017-06-03  "['Martins', 'Malinowski', 'Nissen', 'Fallahi', 'Gardner', 'Manfra', 'Marcus', 'Kuemmeth']"
1706.01020 "Circular Dichroism and Radial Hall Effects in Topological Materials" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Under symmetry breaking, a three-dimensional nodal-line semimetal can turn
into a topological insulator or Weyl semimetal, accompanied by the generation
of momentum-space Berry curvature. We develop a theory that unifies their
circular dichroism and highlights the roles of Berry curvature distribution and
light incident direction. Nontrivially, these phases exhibit distinct dichroic
optical absorption and radial Hall effects, with characteristic scalings with
photon energy and electric field. Our findings offer a new diagnosis tool for
examining topological phases of matter."  2017-06-03  "['Liu', 'Yang', 'Zhang']"
1706.01023 "A New Ultrasonic Transducer Sample Cell for In Situ Scattering
  Experiments" cond-mat.soft "Ultrasound irradiation is a commonly used technique for non-destructive
diagnostics or targeted destruction. We report on a new versatile sonication
device that fits in a variety of standard sample environments for neutron and
X-ray scattering instruments. A piezoelectric transducer permits measuring of
the time-dependent response of the sample in situ during or after sonication.
We use small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) to demonstrate the effect of a
time-dependent perturbation on the structure factor of micelles formed from
sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) surfactant molecules. We observe a significant
change during and after sonication and a time-dependent relaxation to the
equilibrium values of the unperturbed system. The strength of the perturbation
of the structure factor depends systematically on the duration of sonication.
The relaxation behavior can be well reproduced after multiple times of
sonication. Accumulation of the recorded intensities of the different
sonication cycles improves the signal-to-noise ratio and permits reaching very
short relaxation times. Due to the flexibility of our new in situ sonication
device, different experiments can be performed, e.g. to explore molecular
potentials in more detail by introducing a systematic time-dependent
perturbation."  2017-06-04  "['Gupta', 'Bleuel', 'Schneider']"
1706.01025 "Phonon transport in monolayer SiC: a first-principles study" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "An increasing number of two-dimensional (2D) materials have already been
achieved experimentally or predicted theoretically, which have potential
applications in nano- and opto-electronics. The various applications for
electronic devices are closely related to their thermal transport properties.
Here, we investigate phonon transport of monolayer SiC with a perfect planar
hexagonal honeycomb structure by solving the linearized phonon Boltzmann
equation within the single-mode relaxation time approximation (RTA). The
calculated room-temperature sheet thermal conductance is 301.66 $\mathrm{W
K^{-1}}$, which can be converted into conventional definition of the lattice
thermal conductivity by dividing by the nominal thickness of monolayer SiC. The
isotope scattering has little effect on the lattice thermal conductivity of
monolayer SiC. To understand size effects on lattice thermal conductivity, the
lattice thermal conductivites with different finite-size cases and cumulative
lattice thermal conductivity with respect to phonon mean free path(MFP) are
calculated. When the characteristic length is smaller than 30 nm, and the
lattice thermal conductivity can reach a decrease of about 50\%. It is found
that room-temperature lattice thermal conductivity of monolayer SiC is two
orders of magnitude lower than that of graphene. The low lattice thermal
conductivity is due to small group velocities and short phonon lifetimes.
Finally, the low lattice thermal conductivity can be explained by polarized
covalent bond, which is due to large charge transfer from Si to C atoms. The
strongly polarized covalent bond can induce strong phonon anharmonicity,
leading to lower lattice thermal conductivity of monolayer SiC with respect to
graphene. Our works further enrich phonon transports of 2D materials, and
motivate farther experimental studies."  2017-06-04  "['Guo', 'Liu', 'Zhang', 'Li']"
1706.01028 "An effective model for the electronic and optical properties of stanene" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics" "The existence of several 2D materials with heavy atoms in their composition
has been recently demonstrated. The electronic and optical properties of these
materials can be accurately computed with numerically intensive density
functional theory methods. However, it is desirable to have simple effective
models that can accurately describe these properties at low energies. Here we
present an effective model for stanene that is reliable for electronic and
optical properties for photon energies up to 1.1 eV. For this material, we find
that a quadratic model with respect to the lattice momentum is the best suited
for calculations based on the bandstructure, even with respect to band warping.
We also find that splitting the two spin-z subsectors is a good approximation,
which indicates that the lattice buckling can be neglected in calculations
based on the bandstructure. We illustrate the applicability of the model by
computing the linear optical injection rates of carrier and spin densities in
stanene. Our calculations indicate that an incident circularly polarized
optical field only excites electrons with spin that matches its helicity."  2017-06-04  "['Salazar', 'Muniz', 'Sipe']"
1706.01036 "Field- and temperature-modulated spin-diode effect in a GMR nanowire
  with dipolar coupling" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "An analytical model of the spin-diode effect induced by resonant
spin-transfer torque in a ferromagnetic bilayer with strong dipolar coupling
provides the resonance frequencies and the lineshapes of the magnetic field
spectra obtained under field or laser-light modulation. The effect of laser
irradiation is accounted for by introducing the temperature dependence of the
saturation magnetization and anisotropy, as well as thermal spin-transfer
torques. The predictions of the model are compared with experimental data
obtained with single Co/Cu/Co spin valves, embedded in nanowires and produced
by electrodeposition. Temperature modulation provides excellent signal-to-noise
ratio. High temperature-modulation frequency is possible because these
nanostructures have a very small heat capacity and are only weakly heat-sunk.
The two forms of modulation give rise to qualitative differences in the spectra
that are accounted for by the model."  2017-06-04  "['Ogrodnik', 'Stobiecki', 'Barnaś', 'Frankowski', 'Chęciński', 'Vetrò', 'Ansermet']"
1706.01047 "Slow Spin Dynamics and Self-Sustained Clusters in Sparsely Connected
  Systems" cond-mat.dis-nn "To identify emerging microscopic structures in low temperature spin glasses,
we study self-sustained clusters (SSC) in spin models defined on sparse random
graphs. A message-passing algorithm is developed to determine the probability
of individual spins to belong to SSC. Results for specific instances, which
compare the predicted SSC associations with the dynamical properties of spins
obtained from numerical simulations, show that SSC association identifies
individual slow-evolving spins. This insight gives rise to a powerful approach
for predicting individual spin dynamics from a single snapshot of an
equilibrium spin configuration, namely from limited static information, which
can be used to devise generic prediction tools applicable to a wide range of
areas."  2017-06-04  "['Rocchi', 'Saad', 'Yeung']"
1706.01058 "Bidirectional motion of filaments: Role of motor proteins and passive
  cross linkers" "physics.bio-ph cond-mat.soft cond-mat.stat-mech" "In eukaryotic cells, motor proteins (MP) bind to cytoskeletal filaments and
move along them in a directed manner generating active stresses. During cell
division a spindle structure of overlapping antiparallel microtubules (MT) form
whose stability and dynamics under the influence of MPs has been studied
extensively. Although passive cross linkers (PCL) were known to provide
structural stability to filamentous network, consequences of the interplay
between ATP dependent active forces of MPs and passive entropic forces of PCLs
on MT overlap remains largely unexplored. Here, we formulate and characterize a
model to study this, using linear stability analysis and numerical integration.
In presence of PCLs, we find dynamic phase transitions with changing activity
exhibiting regimes of stable partial overlap with or without oscillations,
instability towards complete overlap, and stable limit cycle oscillations that
emerge via a supercritical Hopf bifurcation characterized by an oscillation
frequency determined by the MP and PCL parameters. We show that the overlap
dynamics and stability depend crucially on whether both the MTs of overlapping
pair are movable or one is immobilized, having potential implications for in
vivo and in vitro studies."  2017-06-04  "['Ghosh', 'Pradeep', 'Muhuri', 'Pagonabarraga', 'Chaudhuri']"
1706.01065 "Pinning and hysteresis in the field dependent diameter evolution of
  skyrmions in Pt/Co/Ir superlattice stacks" cond-mat.mes-hall "We have imaged N\'eel skyrmion bubbles in perpendicularly magnetised
polycrystalline multilayers patterned into 1 \mu m diameter dots, using
scanning transmission x-ray microscopy. The skyrmion bubbles can be nucleated
by the application of an external magnetic field and are stable at zero field
with a diameter of 260 nm. Applying an out of plane field that opposes the
magnetisation of the skyrmion bubble core moment applies pressure to the bubble
and gradually compresses it to a diameter of approximately 100 nm. On removing
the field the skyrmion bubble returns to its original diameter via a hysteretic
pathway where most of the expansion occurs in a single abrupt step. This
contradicts analytical models of homogeneous materials in which the skyrmion
compression and expansion are reversible. Micromagnetic simulations
incorporating disorder can explain this behaviour using an effective thickness
modulation between 10 nm grains."  2017-06-04  "['Zeissler', 'Mruczkiewicz', 'Finizio', 'Raabe', 'Shepley', 'Sadovnikov', 'Nikitov', 'Fallon', 'McFadzean', 'McVitie', 'Moore', 'Burnell', 'Marrows']"
1706.01082 "Simultaneous dynamic characterization of charge and structural motion
  during ferroelectric switching" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Monitoring structural changes in ferroelectric thin films during electric
field-induced polarization switching is important for a full microscopic
understanding of the coupled motion of charges, atoms and domain walls. We
combine standard ferroelectric test-cycles with time-resolved x-ray diffraction
to investigate the response of a nanoscale ferroelectric oxide capacitor upon
charging, discharging and switching. Piezoelectric strain develops during the
electronic RC time constant and additionally during structural domain-wall
creep. The complex atomic motion during ferroelectric polarization reversal
starts with a negative piezoelectric response to the charge flow triggered by
voltage pulses. Incomplete screening limits the compressive strain. The
piezoelectric modulation of the unit cell tweaks the energy barrier between the
two polarization states. Domain wall motion is evidenced by a broadening of the
in-plane components of Bragg reflections. Such simultaneous measurements on a
working device elucidate and visualize the complex interplay of charge flow and
structural motion and challenges theoretical modelling."  2017-06-04  "['Kwamen', 'Roessle', 'Reinhardt', 'Leitenberger', 'Zamponi', 'Alexe', 'Bargheer']"
1706.01085 "Two-terminal transport measurements with cold atoms" "cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.mes-hall" "In the last years, the ability of cold atoms experiments to explore
condensed- matter related questions has dramatically progressed. Transport
experiments, in particular, have expanded to the point that conductances and
other transport coefficients can now be measured in a way directly analogous to
solid state physics, extending cold atoms based quantum simulations into the
domain of quantum electronic devices. In this topical review, we describe the
transport experiments performed with cold gases in the two terminals
configuration, with an emphasis on the specific features of cold atomic gases
compared to solid state physics. We present the experimental techniques and the
main experimental findings, focusing on but not restricted to the recent
experiments performed in our group. We eventually discuss the perspectives
opened by this approach, the main technical and conceptual challenges for
future developments, and the potential applications as a quantum simulator for
transport phenomena and mesoscopic physics problems."  2017-06-04  "['Krinner', 'Esslinger', 'Brantut']"
1706.01096 "Microwave spectroscopy of a carbon nanotube charge qubit" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "Carbon nanotube quantum dots allow accurate control of electron charge, spin
and valley degrees of freedom in a material which is atomically perfect and can
be grown isotopically pure. These properties underlie the unique potential of
carbon nanotubes for quantum information processing, but developing nanotube
charge, spin, or spin-valley qubits requires efficient readout techniques as
well as understanding and extending quantum coherence in these devices. Here,
we report on microwave spectroscopy of a carbon nanotube charge qubit in which
quantum information is encoded in the spatial position of an electron. We
combine radio-frequency reflectometry measurements of the quantum capacitance
of the device with microwave manipulation to drive transitions between the
qubit states. This approach simplifies charge-state readout and allows us to
operate the device at an optimal point where the qubit is first-order
insensitive to charge noise. From these measurements, we are able to quantify
the degree of charge noise experienced by the qubit and obtain an inhomogeneous
charge coherence of 5 ns. We use a chopped microwave signal whose duty-cycle
period is varied to measure the decay of the qubit states, yielding a charge
relaxation time of 48 ns." 10.1103/PhysRevApplied.7.054017 2017-06-04  "['Penfold-Fitch', 'Sfigakis', 'Buitelaar']"
1706.01097 "Effects of Applied Strain on Formation, Shape Evolution, and
  Reorientation of Multiphase Zirconium Hydrides: A Multiphase Field Modeling
  Study" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "A recently developed multiphase field model (Bair et al. Acta Materialia
2017) is used to study the effects of applied strain and metastable zeta and
gamma hydrides on the formation and growth of the stable delta hydrides in
alpha-zirconium matrix. A two-dimensional domain is considered where x-axis
(hoop or circumferential direction) is in [11-20] direction and y-axis (radial
direction) is in [0001] direction. Single seed simulations indicate that the
intermediate phases are critical in the formation and evolution of delta phase
hydrides. Hydride reorientation occurs when a tensile strain of 0.021 is
applied in the [11-20] direction or a compressive strain of 0.018 is applied in
the [0001] direction. Shear strain is shown to significantly reorient zeta
phase hydrides before other phases of hydrides form and reorient the hydride
again near the unstressed growth direction. Simulations of two seeds aligned in
the [0001] direction indicate a significant influence of neighboring
precipitates on the applied strain required for reorientation, reducing it to
0.0002 for both cases of tension in [11-20] direction and compression in [0001]
direction when the seeds are about 15 nm from each other."  2017-06-04  "['Bair', 'Zaeem']"
1706.01107 "Topological Landau-Zener Bloch Oscillations in Photonic Floquet Lieb
  Lattices" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.optics quant-ph" "The Lieb Lattice exhibits intriguing properties that are of general interest
in both the fundamental physics and practical applications. Here, we
investigate the topological Landau-Zener Bloch oscillation in a photonic
Floquet Lieb lattice, where the dimerized helical waveguides is constructed to
realize the synthetic spin-orbital interaction through the Floquet mechanism,
rendering us to study the impacts of topological transition from trivial gaps
to non-trivial ones. The compact localized states of flat bands supported by
the local symmetry of Lieb lattice will be associated with other bands by
topological invariants, Chern number, and involved into Landau-Zener transition
during Bloch oscillation. Importantly, the non-trivial geometrical phases after
topological transitions will be taken into account for constructive and
destructive interferences of wave functions. The numerical calculations of
continuum photonic medium demonstrate reasonable agreements with theoretical
tight-binding model. Our results provide an ongoing effort to realize designed
quantum materials with tailored properties."  2017-06-04  "['Long', 'Ren']"
1706.01113 "Flocking Transition in Confluent Tissues" "cond-mat.soft cond-mat.stat-mech physics.bio-ph" "Collective cell migration underlies important biological processes, such as
embryonic development, wound healing and cancer invasion. While many aspects of
single cell movements are now well established, the mechanisms leading to
displacements of cohesive cell groups are still poorly understood. To elucidate
the emergence of collective migration in mechanosensitive cells, we examine a
self-propelled Voronoi (SPV) model of confluent tissues with an orientational
feedback that aligns a cell's polarization with its local migration velocity.
While shape and motility are known to regulate a density-independent
liquid-solid transition in tissues, we find that aligning interactions
facilitate collective motion and promote solidification. Our model reproduces
the behavior observed in jammed epithelial monolayers, which are unjammed by
the addition of the endocytic protein RAB5A that promotes cell motility by
inducing large scale coherent migratory patterns and local fluidization."  2017-06-04  "['Giavazzi', 'Paoluzzi', 'Macchi', 'Bi', 'Scita', 'Manning', 'Cerbino', 'Marchetti']"
1706.01121 "Incommensurate chirality density wave transition in a hybrid molecular
  framework" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Using single-crystal X-ray diffraction we characterise the 235\,K
incommensurate phase transition in the hybrid molecular framework
tetraethylammonium silver(I) dicyanoargentate, [NEt$_4$]Ag$_3$(CN)$_4$. We
demonstrate the transition to involve spontaneous resolution of chiral
[NEt$_4$]$^+$ conformations, giving rise to a state in which molecular
chirality is incommensurately modulated throughout the crystal lattice. We
refer to this state as an incommensurate chirality density wave (XDW) phase,
which represents a fundamentally new type of chiral symmetry breaking in the
solid state. Drawing on parallels to the incommensurate ferroelectric
transition of NaNO$_2$ we suggest the XDW state arises through coupling between
acoustic (shear) and molecular rotoinversion modes. Such coupling is
symmetry-forbidden at the Brillouin zone centre but symmetry-allowed for small
but finite modulation vectors $\mathbf q=[0,0,q_z]^\ast$. The importance of
long-wavelength chirality modulations in the physics of this hybrid framework
may have implications for the generation of mesoscale chiral textures, as
required for advanced photonic materials."  2017-06-04  "['Hill', 'Christensen', 'Goodwin']"
1706.01144 "Microscopic Observation of Entangled Multi-Magnetoelectric Coupling
  Phenomenon" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Searching for new functionality in next generation electronic devices is a
principal driver of material physics research. Multiferroics simultaneously
exhibit electric and magnetic order parameters that may be coupled through
magnetoelectric (ME) effects. In single-phase materials the ME effect arises
from one of three known mechanisms: inverse Dzyaloshinskii-Moriya (IDM)
interaction, spin dependent ligand-metal (p-d) orbital hybridization, and
exchange striction. However, the coupling among these mechanisms remains
largely unexplored despite envisioned potential capabilities. Here, we present
cooperative tuning between both IDM interaction and p-d hybridization that
leads to discrete ME states in Ba0.5Sr2.5Co2Fe24O41. In-situ x-ray diffraction
exposes the microscopic interplay between these two mechanisms, marked by a
unique ME susceptibility upon electric and magnetic fields. The entangled
multi-ME coupling phenomenon observed in this room-temperature ME hexaferrite
offers a pathway to novel functional control for ME device applications."  2017-06-04  "['Chun', 'Shin', 'Kim', 'Mitchell', 'Ryan', 'Kim']"
1706.01145 "The Wigner Entropy Production Rate" "quant-ph cond-mat.stat-mech" "The characterization of irreversibility in general quantum processes is an
open problem of increasing techno- logical relevance. Yet, the tools currently
available to this aim are mostly limited to the assessment of dynamics induced
by equilibrium environments, a situation that often does not match the reality
of experiments at the microscopic and mesoscopic scale. We propose a theory of
irreversible entropy production that is suited for quantum systems exposed to
general, non-equilibrium reservoirs. We illustrate our framework by addressing
a set of physically relevant situations that clarify both the features and the
potential of our proposal." 10.1103/PhysRevLett.118.220601 2017-06-04  "['Santos', 'Landi', 'Paternostro']"
1706.01162 "The Effect of non-Hermiticity on Adiabatic Elimination" "physics.optics cond-mat.other physics.app-ph" "We investigate the influence of non-Hermiticity on the adiabatic elimination
in coupled waveguides. We show that adiabatic elimination is not affected when
the system is in parity-time symmetric phase. However, in the broken phase the
eliminated waveguide loses its darkness namely its amplitude starts increasing,
which means adiabatic elimination does not hold in the broken phase. Our
results can advance the control of the dynamics in coupled laser cavities, and
help the design of controllable absorbers."  2017-06-04  "['Sharaf', 'Dehghani', 'Darbari', 'Ramezani']"
1706.01179 "Anomalous Thermodynamic Properties of Electron Accumulation Layer in
  SrTiO$_{3}$" cond-mat.mes-hall "Due to the nonlinear dielectric response within SrTiO$_{3}$ (STO), an
accumulation layer created by positive charges at the surface of the STO sample
($x=0$) has an electron density profile $n(x)$ that slowly decays as
$1/x^{12/7}$. Here we show that the long tail of $n(x)$ causes the
magnetization and the specific heat of the accumulation layer to diverge at
large $x$. We explore the truncation of the tail by the finite sample width
$W$, the transition from the nonlinear to linear dielectric response with
dielectric constant $\kappa$, and the application of a back gate with a
negative voltage $-|V|$. We find that both the magnetization and specific heat
are anomalously large and obey nontrivial power law dependences on $W$,
$\kappa$, or $|V|$. We conclude with a discussion of how the capacitance as a
function of the back gate voltage may be used to study the shape of the $n(x)$
tail in thin samples."  2017-06-04  "['Sammon', 'Fu', 'Shklovskii']"
1706.01192 "Numerical Observation of Parafermion Zero Modes and their Stability in
  2D Topological States" "cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.stat-mech quant-ph" "The possibility of realizing non-Abelian excitations (non-Abelions) in
two-dimensional (2D) Abelian states of matter has generated a lot of interest
recently. A well-known example of such non-Abelions are parafermion zeros modes
(PFZMs) which can be realized at the endpoints of the so called genons in
fractional quantum Hall (FQH) states or fractional Chern insulators (FCIs). In
this letter, we discuss some known signatures of PFZMs and also introduce some
novel ones. In particular, we show that the topological entanglement entropy
(TEE) shifts by a quantized value after crossing PFZMs. Utilizing those
signatures, we present the first large scale numerical study of PFZMs and their
stability against perturbations in both FQH states and FCIs within the
density-Matrix-Renormalization-Group (DMRG) framework. Our results can help
build a closer connection with future experiments on FQH states with genons."  2017-06-05  "['Vaezi', 'Vaezi']"
1706.01220 "Observation of a Degenerate Fermi Gas Trapped by a Bose-Einstein
  Condensate" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.atom-ph" "We report on the formation of a stable quantum degenerate mixture of
fermionic $^6$Li and bosonic $^{133}$Cs in an optical trap by sympathetic
cooling near an interspecies Feshbach resonance. New regimes of the quantum
degenerate mixtures are identified. With moderate attractive interspecies
interactions, we show that a degenerate Fermi gas of Li can be fully confined
in the Cs condensate without external potentials. For stronger attraction where
mean-field collapse is expected, no such instability is observed. In this case,
we suggest the stability is a result of dynamic equilibrium, where the
interspecies three-body loss prevents the collapse. Our picture is supported by
a rate equation model, and the crossover between the thermalization rate and
the observed inelastic loss rate in the regime where the mean-field collapse is
expected to occur."  2017-06-05  "['DeSalvo', 'Patel', 'Johansen', 'Chin']"
1706.01223 "Induction of tin pest for cleaning tin-drop contaminated optics" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Tin pest, the allotropic {\beta} - {\alpha} phase transformation of tin, was
examined for use in cleaning of tin-contaminated optics. Induction of change in
material structure led to disintegration of tin samples into pieces and powder.
The transition times were studied for tin drops of different purity grades,
using inoculation with {\alpha}-Sn seed particles, also after prior mechanical
deformation and surface oxide removal. For tin of very high purity levels fast
nucleation within hours and full transformation within a day could be achieved
during cooling at -24 {\deg}C, resulting in strong embrittlement of the
material. Tin dripped onto samples of multilayer-coated optics as used in
extreme ultraviolet lithography machines was made cleanable by phase transition
after inoculation and cooling. The reflectance of multilayer-coated mirrors was
found to decrease by no more than 1% with this cleaning method."  2017-06-05  ['Böwering']
1706.01261 "Ultra-small (r<2 nm), stable (>1 year), mixed valence copper oxide
  quantum dots with anomalous band gap" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Ultra-small (r<2 nm) semiconductor quantum dots (QDs) have attracted
attention for applications ranging from dye sensitized solar cells to sensing
due to its tunable electronic structure and band gap, and large specific
surface area. However obtaining monodisperse QDs and stabilization in this size
regime remains a challenge. A recent report on digestive ripening of an oxide
system showed substantial promise in addressing these requirements of QDs. In
this work, we report a green solution, soft chemical (chimie douce) approach
for synthesis of quasi-spherical, ultra-small, stable, and monodispersed copper
oxide QDs (r<2 nm) based on digestive ripening (DR). It may be noted this is
only the second transition metal oxide system in which DR is reported so far.
DR involves the refluxing of polydispersed colloidal nanoparticles in the
presence of surface active agents (e.g. triethanolamine (TEA)) that leads to
fairly monodispersed nanoparticles. It has been noticed that capping with TEA
results in reduction in the average particle diameter from 6 +/- 4 nm to 2.4
+/- 0.5 nm and an increase of zeta potential ({\xi}) from +12 +/- 2 mV to +31
+/- 2 mV. These copper oxide QDs are monodispersed (size ~ 2.4 +/- 0.5 nm), and
stable (>1 year). In addition, these quantum dots show an anomalous increase in
band gap (5.3 eV), inexplicable using Brus' equation. XPS indicates that Cu
exists in mixed valence state in this material. Based on our observations, we
suggest that off-stoichiometry in copper oxide, which is seemingly substantial
at these length scales, is responsible for the observed anomaly in band gap."  2017-06-05  "['Talluri', 'Prasad', 'Thomas']"
1706.01270 "Quench Dynamics of Josephson Current in a Topological Josephson Junction" cond-mat.mes-hall "The $4\pi$ Josephson Effect is a distinguishing feature of a topological
Josephson junction. However, stringent conditions make it hard to observe in
experiments. Here we numerically study the transient transport properties in a
topological Josephson junction. We show that the $4\pi$ Josephson current can
be sustained for a significant time (around several $\mu s$ with suitable
conditions). Furthermore, we compare the behaviors of Josephson current in
different conditions, identifying three main regimes: First, when both the
superconducting wires of the Josephson junction lie in the topologically
nontrivial region, the $4\pi$ Josephson current can appear with a suddenly
applied DC voltage. Second, when one superconducting wire lies in the trivial
region and the other one lies in the non-trivial region, the Josephson current
is $2\pi$ periodic but unstable with the evolving of time. Third, when both
wires lie in the trivial region, a stable $2\pi$ Josephson current is observed.
These results can facilitate fine-tuning of the experiment parameters in order
to finally observe the $4\pi$ Josephson current in a topological Josephson
junction."  2017-06-05  "['Sun', 'Liu']"
1706.01274 "Inhomogeneous superconductivity in ionic-liquid gated highly crystalline
  two-dimensional systems" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.supr-con" "Recent progress in the fabrication of 2D highly ordered thin films and in
tuning their electron density both by chemical doping or ionic gating has
opened a new field with a wealth of interesting physical effects [1] ranging
from unconventional superconductivity, sizable spin-orbit coupling, competition
with charge-density waves (CDWs), and so on. Despite their high electron
mobility and nearly perfect crystalline structure, we find that transport
properties can be interpreted in terms of an inhomogeneous system, where
superconducting (SC) `puddles' are embedded in a normal metal matrix. In
particular, by fitting the resistance curves of several systems like TiSe_2,
MoS_2, and ZrNCl, we show that these systems are electronically inhomogeneous.
This finding, not only is relevant per se, but naturally raises the crucial
question of the general mechanism(s) leading to electronic inhomogeneity. We
propose a mechanism based on the interplay between electrons and the charges of
the gating ionic liquid."  2017-06-05  "['Dezi', 'Scopigno', 'Caprara', 'Grilli']"
1706.01276 "Time dependent local potential in a Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid" cond-mat.quant-gas "We study the energy deposition in a one dimensional interacting quantum
system with a point like potential modulated in amplitude. The point like
potential at position $x=0$ has a constant part and a small oscillation in time
with a frequency $\omega$. We use bosonization, renormalization group and
linear response theory to calculate the corresponding energy deposition. It
exhibits a power law behavior as a function of the frequency that reflects the
Tomonaga-Luttinger liquid (TLL) nature of the system. Depending on the
interactions in the system, characterized by the TLL parameter $K$ of the
system, a crossover between week and strong coupling for the backscattering due
to the potential is possible. We compute the frequency scale $\omega_\ast$, at
which such crossover exists. We find that the energy deposition due to the
backscattering shows different exponent for $K>1$ and $K<1$. We discuss
possible experimental consequences, in the context of cold atomic gases, of our
theoretical results."  2017-06-05 2017-06-06 "['Kamar', 'Giamarchi']"
1706.01285 "Gaussian fluctuation of the diffusion exponent of virus capsid in a
  living cell nucleus" "physics.bio-ph cond-mat.stat-mech" "In their work [Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 112, E5725 (2015)], Bosse et al.
experimentally showed that virus capsid exhibits not only normal diffusion but
also anomalous diffusion in nucleus of a living cell. There, it was found that
the distribution of fluctuations of the diffusion exponent characterizing them
takes the Gaussian form, which is, quite remarkably, the same form for two
different types of the virus. This suggests the existence of high universality
of such fluctuations. Here, the statistical property of local fluctuations of
the diffusion exponent of the virus capsid in the nucleus is studied. A
maximum-entropy-principle approach (originally proposed for a different virus
in a different cell) is applied for obtaining the fluctuation distribution of
the exponent. Largeness of the number of blocks identified with local areas of
interchromatin corrals is also examined based on the experimental data. It is
shown that the Gaussian distribution of the local fluctuations can be derived,
in accordance with the above form."  2017-06-05  ['Itto']
1706.01306 "Exciton transport in the PE545 complex: insight from atomistic
  QM/MM-based quantum master equations and elastic network models" "q-bio.BM cond-mat.stat-mech physics.bio-ph quant-ph" "In this paper we work out a parameterization of the environment noise within
the Haken-Strobl-Reinenker (HSR) model for the PE545 light-harvesting complex
based on atomic-level quantum mechanics/molecular mechanics (QM/MM)
simulations. We use this approach to investigate the role of different auto-
and cross-correlations in the HSR noise tensor, confirming that site-energy
autocorrelations (pure dephasing) terms dominate the noise-induced exciton
mobility enhancement, followed by site energy-coupling cross-correlations for
specific triplets of pigments. Interestingly, several cross-correlations of the
latter kind, together with coupling-coupling cross-correlations, display clear
low-frequency signatures in their spectral densities in the region 30-70
inverse centimeters. These slow components lie at the limits of validity of the
HSR approach, requiring that environmental fluctuations be faster than typical
exciton transfer time scales. We show that a simple coarse-grained
elastic-network-model (ENM) analysis of the PE545 protein naturally spotlights
collective normal modes in this frequency range, that represent specific
concerted motions of the subnetwork of cysteines that are covalenty linked to
the pigments. This analysis strongly suggests that protein scaffolds in
light-harvesting complexes are able to express specific collective,
low-frequency normal modes providing a fold-rooted blueprint of exciton
transport pathways. We speculate that ENM-based mixed quantum classical
methods, such as Ehrenfest dynamics, might be promising tools to disentangle
the fundamental designing principles of these dynamical processes in natural
and artificial light-harvesting structures."  2017-05-29  "['Pouyandeh', 'Iubini', 'Jurinovich', 'Omar', 'Mennucci', 'Piazza']"
1706.01309 "Conductance distribution in the magnetic field" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.dis-nn" "The distribution of conductance in the magnetic field is described by the
same equations as in the absence of a field. Variation of the magnetic field
does not lead to any qualitative effects in the conductance distribution and
only changes its quantitative characteristics, moving a position of the system
in the three-parameter space. In contrast to the previous paper [arXiv:
1611.02522], the evolution equation for quasi-1D systems is established from
the generalized DMPK equation, and not by a simple analogy with one-dimensional
systems; as a result, all statements became more rigorous and accurate."  2017-05-08  ['Suslov']
1706.01310 "Topological Order and Screening in Superconducting Films" "cond-mat.supr-con hep-th" "We derive an effective low-energy action for thin superconducting films
taking into account the realistic full electromagnetic interaction among the
charged carriers using the pseudo QED approach. The leading term is a
topological BF action, just as in idealized 2d models with a 2d Maxwell action.
Although the topological order is the same in the two models, the screening
behaviour differ qualitatively. The Meissner effect, characteristic of
superconductivity, is absent in the pseudo QED case, where the magnetic field
around a vortex shows a power-law rather than an exponential decay inside the
superconductor as originally found by Pearl. Electric charges are also only
screened by a power law, while the quantum vortex correlation function exhibits
an exponential decay, which can be taken as a sharp signature of
superconductivity. We also show that there is a frequency threshold
corresponding to the superconducting gap, below which there is no propagation
of surface plasmons. The low-frequency threshold disappears when the system
returns to the normal metallic phase and the SC gap vanishes, as expected in a
topologically ordered phase."  2017-05-23  "['Marino', 'Niemeyer', 'Alves', 'Hansson']"
1706.01311 "Trigger-type metamaterials on the base of collective Jahn-Teller effect" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.mtrl-sci physics.app-ph" "Generally, in case of the collective Jahn-Teller effect, a high-symmetry
structure of a matrix in which quantum systems with degenerate ground state are
inserted becomes distorted. This usually smooth transition can become abrupt
only if the matrix by itself is a trigger and JTE merely activates its
switching. It is shown in this paper that proper insertion into matrix of
quantum systems with the singlet ground state and degenerate excited state
leads to the formation of a new metastable state of the whole system and a
stepwise appearance of JTE. A matrix of any nature can be transformed into
trigger in this way if one manages to synthesize and insert into it proper
quantum active centers with appropriate energy spectrum. Theoretically, this
provides advanced possibilities for metamaterials development."  2017-05-29  ['Rosenfeld']
1706.01316 "Spin-charge conversion in disordered two-dimensional electron gases
  lacking inversion symmetry" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "We study the spin-charge conversion mechanisms in a two-dimensional gas of
electrons moving in a smooth disorder potential by accounting for both
Rashba-type and Mott's skew scattering contributions. We find that quantum
interference effects between spin-flip and skew scattering give rise to
anisotropic spin precession scattering (ASP), a direct spin-charge conversion
mechanism that was discovered in an earlier study of graphene decorated with
adatoms [C. Huang \emph{et al.} Phys.~Rev.~B \textbf{94} 085414.~(2016)]. Our
findings suggest that, together with other spin-charge conversion mechanisms
such as the inverse galvanic effect, ASP is a fairly universal phenomenon that
should be present in disordered two-dimensional systems lacking inversion
symmetry."  2017-06-05  "['Huang', 'Milletari', 'Cazalilla']"
1706.01326 "Metastable Clusters and Channels Formed by Active Particles with
  Aligning Interactions" "physics.comp-ph cond-mat.soft" "We introduce a novel model for active particles with short-range aligning
interactions and study their behaviour in crowded environments using numerical
simulations. When only active particles are present, we observe a transition
from a gaseous state to the emergence of metastable clusters as the level of
orientational noise is reduced. When also passive particle are present, we
observe the emergence of a network of metastable channels."  2017-06-05  "['Nilsson', 'Volpe']"
1706.01343 "Simple and accurate exchange energy for density functional theory" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Recently, there has been a growing concern that the mathematical functions
describing the exchange and correlation energies for density functional theory
are becoming too complex with too many fitting parameters that the theory is
losing the physical concepts that motivate each mathematical function. Here we
present a very simple functional for the exchange energy without any fitting
parameter; and despite its unique simplicity, is 30% more accurate than the
most successful Becke-88 exchange functional. Typically, an exchange functional
is based on the merging between the two theoretical limits: the behavior of
electron density (i) when it is far from a molecule x->infinity, and (ii) when
it is slowly varying inside the molecule x->0. The parameter x is used to
quantify the electron density between the two limits. In the slowly varying
limit, the exchange energy is known to grow quadratically as 1+{\mu}x^2. In
constructing the exchange functional, Becke incorporated the x^2 dependence
explicitly. However, in this work, we simply set the functional to approach the
number 1 and let the x^2 dependence emerge naturally. Tests on hydrogen through
krypton atoms show remarkable accuracy with an average error of 0.11%. Our
formula demonstrates that it is possible to reach higher accuracy while
retaining simplicity. This also implies faster computations for application
usage, and more accessible theoretical investigations in the future."  2017-06-05  "['Chachiyo', 'Chachiyo']"
1706.01373 "Miscible-Immiscible Transition and Nonequilibrium Scaling in
  Two-Component Driven Open Condensate Wires" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.quant-gas cond-mat.str-el" "We investigate the steady state phase diagram of two-component driven open
condensates in one dimension. We identify a miscible-immiscible transition
which is predominantly driven by gapped density fluctuations and occurs upon
increasing the inter-component inelastic coupling. Below the transition in the
miscible phase, we find the effective long wavelength dynamics to be described
by a two-component Kardar-Parisi-Zhang (KPZ) equation that belongs to the
nonequilibrium universality class of the one-dimensional single-component KPZ
equation at generic choices of parameters. Our results are relevant for
different experimental realizations for two-component driven open condensates
in exciton-polariton systems."  2017-06-05  "['He', 'Diehl']"
1706.01386 "Li-intercalated Graphene on SiC(0001): an STM study" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "We present a systematical study via scanning tunneling microscopy (STM) and
low-energy electron diffraction (LEED) on the effect of the exposure of Lithium
(Li) on graphene on silicon carbide (SiC). We have investigated Li deposition
both on epitaxial monolayer graphene and on buffer layer surfaces on the
Si-face of SiC. At room temperature, Li immediately intercalates at the
interface between the SiC substrate and the buffer layer and transforms the
buffer layer into a quasi-free-standing graphene. This conclusion is
substantiated by LEED and STM evidence. We show that intercalation occurs
through the SiC step sites or graphene defects. We obtain a good quantitative
agreement between the number of Li atoms deposited and the number of available
Si bonds at the surface of the SiC crystal. Through STM analysis, we are able
to determine the interlayer distance induced by Li-intercalation at the
interface between the SiC substrate and the buffer layer."  2017-06-05  "['Fiori', 'Murata', 'Veronesi', 'Rossi', 'Coletti', 'Heun']"
1706.01400 "Electronic and energetic properties of Ge(110) pentagons" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The electronic and energetic properties of the elementary building block,
i.e. a five-membered atom ring (pentagon), of the Ge(110) surface was studied
by scanning tunneling microscopy and spectroscopy at room temperature. The
Ge(110) surface is composed of three types of domains: two ordered domains
((16x2) and c(8x10)) and a disordered domain. The elementary building block of
all three domains is a pentagon. Scanning tunneling spectra recorded on the
(16x2), c(8x10) and disordered domains are very similar and reveal three
well-defined electronic states. Two electronic states are located 1.1 eV and
0.3 eV below the Fermi level respectively, whereas the third electronic state
is located 0.4 eV above the Fermi level. The electronic states at -0.3 eV and
0.4 eV can be ascribed to the pentagons, whilst we tentatively assigned the
electronic state at -1.1 eV to a Ge-Ge back bond or trough state. In addition,
we have analyzed the straight [1-12] oriented step edges. From the kink density
and kink-kink distance distributions we extracted the nearest neighbor
interaction energy between the pentagons, which exhibit a strong preference to
occur in twins, as well as the strain relaxation energy along the pentagon-twin
chains." 10.1016/j.susc.2014.03.019 2017-06-02  "['Bampoulis', 'Acun', 'Zhang', 'Zandvliet']"
1706.01422 "Atomic and Electronic Structure of Si Dangling Bonds in
  Quasi-Free-Standing Monolayer Graphene" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "Si dangling bonds without H termination at the interface of quasi-free
standing monolayer graphene (QFMLG) are known scattering centers that can
severely affect carrier mobility. In this report, we study the atomic and
electronic structure of Si dangling bonds in QFMLG using low-temperature
scanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy (STM/STS), atomic force microscopy
(AFM), and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Two types of defects
with different contrast were observed on a flat terrace by STM and AFM. Their
STM contrast varies with bias voltage. In STS, they showed characteristic peaks
at different energies, 1.1 and 1.4 eV. Comparison with DFT calculations
indicates that they correspond to clusters of 3 and 4 Si dangling bonds,
respectively. The relevance of these results for the optimization of graphene
synthesis is discussed."  2017-06-05  "['Murata', 'Cavallucci', 'Tozzini', 'Pavliček', 'Gross', 'Meyer', 'Takamura', 'Hibino', 'Beltram', 'Heun']"
1706.01440 "Coherent inflationary dynamics for Bose-Einstein condensates crossing a
  quantum critical point" cond-mat.quant-gas "Quantum phase transitions, transitions between many-body ground states, are
of extensive interest in research ranging from condensed matter physics to
cosmology. Key features of the phase transitions include a stage with rapidly
growing new order, called inflation in cosmology, followed by the formation of
topological defects. How inflation is initiated and evolves into topological
defects remains a hot debate topic. Ultracold atomic gas offers a pristine and
tunable platform to investigate quantum critical dynamics. We report the
observation of coherent inflationary dynamics across a quantum critical point
in driven Bose-Einstein condensates. The inflation manifests in the exponential
growth of density waves and populations in well-resolved momentum states. After
the inflation stage, extended coherent dynamics is evident in both real and
momentum space. We present an intuitive description of the quantum critical
dynamics in our system and demonstrate the essential role of phase fluctuations
in the formation of topological defects."  2017-06-05  "['Feng', 'Clark', 'Gaj', 'Chin']"
1706.01444 "Criticality of models interpolating between the sine- and the
  sinh-Gordon Lagrangians" "hep-th cond-mat.stat-mech" "We introduce and study the properties of a class of models interpolating
between the sine-- and the sinh--Gordon theories in $1+1$ dimensions. These
models show the peculiarities, due to the preservation of the functional form
of their potential across RG flows, of the two limiting cases: {\em i)} the
sine-Gordon, not having conventional order/magnetization at finite temperature,
but exhibiting Berezinskii-Kosterlitz-Thouless (BKT) transition; and {\em ii)}
the sinh-Gordon, not having a phase transition, but being integrable. The
considered interpolation, which we term as sn-Gordon model, is performed with
potentials written in terms of Jacobi functions. The properties of the
sn-Gordon theory are discussed: all the critical points, except the sinh-Gordon
one, are of BKT type. We also argue about the comparison with another natural
interpolation, builded by considering the coupling constant $\beta$ as a
complex quantity, in a way similar to the analytical continuation $\beta \to i
\beta$ often used to pass from the sine- to the sinh-Gordon or viceversa."  2017-06-05  "['Defenu', 'Bacsó', 'Márián', 'Nándori', 'Trombettoni']"
1706.01458 "Intelligence of agents produces a structural phase transition in
  collective behaviour" "physics.soc-ph cond-mat.soft cond-mat.stat-mech" "Living organisms process information to interact and adapt to their changing
environment with the goal of finding food, mates or averting hazards. The
structure of their niche has profound repercussions by both selecting their
internal architecture and also inducing adaptive responses to environmental
cues and stimuli. Adaptive, collective behaviour underpinned by specialized
optimization strategies is ubiquitously found in the natural world. This
exceptional success originates from the processes of fitness and selection.
Here we prove that a universal physical mechanism of a nonequilibrium
transition underlies the collective organization of information-processing
organisms. As cognitive agents build and update an internal, cognitive
representation of the causal structure of their environment, complex patterns
emerge in the system, where the onset of pattern formation relates to the
spatial overlap of cognitive maps. Studying the exchange of information among
the agents reveals a continuous, order-disorder transition. As a result of the
spontaneous breaking of translational symmetry, a Goldstone mode emerges, which
points at a collective mechanism of information transfer among cognitive
organisms. Taken together, the characteristics of this phase transition
consolidate different results in cognitive and biological sciences in a
universal manner. These finding are generally applicable to the design of
artificial intelligent swarm systems that do not rely on centralized control
schemes."  2017-06-05  "['Hornischer', 'Herminghaus', 'Mazza']"
1706.01462 "Enhancing quantum order with fermions by increasing species degeneracy" cond-mat.quant-gas "One of the challenges for fermionic cold atom experiments in optical lattices
is to cool the systems to low enough temperature that they can form quantum
degenerate ordered phases. In particular, there has been significant work in
trying to find the antiferromagnetic phase transition of the Hubbard model in
three dimensions, without success. Here, we attack this problem from a
different angle by enhancing the ordering temperature via an increase in the
degeneracy of the atomic species trapped in the optical lattice. In addition to
developing the general theory, we also discuss some potential systems where one
might be able to achieve these results experimentally."  2017-06-05  "['Najafi', 'Maśka', 'Dixon', 'Julienne', 'Freericks']"
1706.01468 "Spin-polarized Andreev tunneling through the Rashba chain" "cond-mat.mes-hall cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.supr-con" "We discuss a feasible protocol for distinguishing between the zero-energy
Majorana and the finite-energy fermionic quasiparticles of the Rashba chain,
based on the selective equal-spin Andreev reflection (SESAR) spectroscopy. Such
technique is designed for probing solely the $p$-wave superconductivity,
thereby being applicable to the intersite pairing of equal spin electrons in
the chain of magnetic Fe atoms deposited on the superconducting Pb substrate.
We show that SESAR can indeed detect polarization of the zero-energy edge modes
and moreover it can single out the Majorana from the ordinary in-gap
quasiparticles. Contrary to earlier expectations we show, however, that a pure
spin current (i.e. perfect polarization) would not be observable in the Rashba
chain."  2017-06-05  "['Maska', 'Domanski']"
1706.01470 "Intertwined order and holography: the case of the pair density wave" "hep-th cond-mat.str-el cond-mat.supr-con" "We present a minimal bottom-up extension of the Chern-Simons bulk action for
holographic translational symmetry breaking that naturally gives rise to pair
density waves. We construct stationary inhomogeneous black hole solutions in
which both the U(1) symmetry and spatially translational symmetry are
spontaneously broken at finite temperature and charge density. This novel
solution provides a dual description of a superconducting phase intertwined
with charge and current orders."  2017-06-05  "['Cai', 'Li', 'Wang', 'Zaanen']"
1706.01475 "Deconfinement transitions in a generalised XY model" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.str-el" "We find the complete phase diagram of a generalised XY model that includes
half-vortices. The model possesses superfluid, pair-superfluid and disordered
phases, separated by Kosterlitz-Thouless (KT) transitions for both the
half-vortices and ordinary vortices, as well as an Ising-type transition. There
also occurs an unusual deconfining phase transition, where the disordered to
superfluid transition is of Ising rather than KT type. We show by analytical
arguments and extensive numerical simulations that there is a point in the
phase diagram where the KT transition line meets the deconfining Ising phase
transition. We find that the latter extends into the disordered phase not as a
phase transition, but rather solely as a deconfinement transition. It is best
understood in the dual height model, where on one side of the transition height
steps are bound into pairs while on the other they are unbound. We also extend
the phase diagram of the dual model, finding both O(2) loop model and
antiferromagnetic Ising transitions."  2017-06-05  "['Serna', 'Chalker', 'Fendley']"
1706.01491 "Ultracold atoms in multiple-radiofrequency dressed adiabatic potentials" cond-mat.quant-gas "We present the first experimental demonstration of a multiple-radiofrequency
dressed potential for the configurable magnetic confinement of ultracold atoms.
In a scheme that can be easily extended by the application of additional
dressing frequencies, we load cold $^{87}$Rb atoms into a double well potential
with an adjustable barrier height, formed by three independently-generated
frequencies. Our multiple-radiofrequency approach allows for precise control
over the double well potential, including the depth of individual wells and the
height of the barrier, and enables reliable transfer of atoms between the
available trapping geometries. We have characterised the
multiple-radiofrequency dressed system using radiofrequency spectroscopy,
finding good agreement with the eigenvalues numerically calculated using
Floquet theory. This method can be used to create arbitrary connected trapping
potentials as well as magnetic lattice structures with individually addressed
lattice sites."  2017-06-05  "['Harte', 'Bentine', 'Luksch', 'Barker', 'Trypogeorgos', 'Yuen', 'Foot']"
1706.01493 "Monolithic Photoelectrochemical Device for 19% Direct Water Splitting" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Recent rapid progress in efficiencies for solar water splitting by
photoelectrochemical devices has enhanced its prospects to enable storable
renewable energy. Efficient solar fuel generators all use tandem photoelectrode
structures, and advanced integrated devices incorporate corrosion protection
layers as well as heterogeneous catalysts. Realization of near thermodynamic
limiting performance requires tailoring the energy band structure of the
photoelectrode and also the optical and electronic properties of the surface
layers exposed to the electrolyte. Here, we report a monolithic device
architecture that exhibits reduced surface reflectivity in conjunction with
metallic Rh nanoparticle catalyst layers that minimize parasitic light
absorption. Additionally, the anatase TiO2 protection layer on the photocathode
creates a favorable internal band alignment for hydrogen evolution. An initial
solar-to-hydrogen efficiency of 19.3 % is obtained in acidic electrolyte and an
efficiency of 18.5 % is achieved at neutral pH condition (under simulated
sunlight)."  2017-06-05  "['Cheng', 'Richter', 'May', 'Ohlmann', 'Lackner', 'Dimroth', 'Hannappel', 'Atwater', 'Lewerenz']"
1706.01494 "Characterization of optimal carbon nanotubes under stretching and
  validation of the Cauchy-Born rule" "math.AP cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "Carbon nanotubes are modeled as point configurations and investigated by
minimizing configurational energies including two- and three-body interactions.
Optimal configurations are identified with local minima and their fine geometry
is fully characterized in terms of lower-dimensional problems. Under moderate
tension, such local minimizers are proved to be periodic, which indeed
validates the so-called Cauchy-Born rule in this setting."  2017-06-05  "['Friedrich', 'Mainini', 'Piovano', 'Stefanelli']"
1706.01496 "3D spherical-cap fitting procedure for (truncated) sessile nano- and
  micro-droplets & -bubbles" "cond-mat.soft physics.data-an" "In the study of nanobubbles, nanodroplets or nanolenses immobilised on a
substrate, a cross-section of a spherical-cap is widely applied to extract
geometrical information from atomic force microscopy (AFM) topographic images.
In this paper, we have developed a comprehensive 3D spherical cap fitting
procedure (3D-SCFP) to extract morphologic characteristics of complete or
truncated spherical caps from AFM images. Our procedure integrates several
advanced digital image analysis techniques to construct a 3D spherical cap
model, from which the geometrical parameters of the nanostructures are
extracted automatically by a simple algorithm. The procedure takes into account
all valid data points in the construction of the 3D spherical cap model to
achieve high fidelity in morphology analysis. We compare our 3D fitting
procedure with the commonly used 2D cross-sectional profile fitting method to
determine the contact angle of a complete spherical cap and a truncated
spherical cap. The results from 3D-SCFP are consistent and accurate, while 2D
fitting is unavoidably arbitrary in selection of the cross-section and has a
much lower number of data points on which the fitting can be based, which in
addition is biased to the top of the spherical cap. We expect that the
developed 3D spherical-cap fitting procedure will find many applications in
imaging analysis." 10.1140/epje/i2016-16106-6 2017-06-05  "['Tan', 'Peng', 'Sun', 'Zhang', 'Lohse']"
1706.01497 "FCS and RICS Spectra of Probes in Complex Fluids" cond-mat.soft "The Fluorescence Correlation Spectroscopy (FCS) spectrum G(t) and Raster
Image Correlation Spectroscopy (RICS) spectrum R(t) of dilute diffusing
particles are determined by the displacement distribution function P(x,t) of
the particles and by the experimental parameters of the associated optical
trains. This letter obtains the general relationships between P(x,t) and these
spectra. For dilute diffusing molecules in simple liquids, P(x,t) is a Gaussian
in the displacement x; the corresponding G(t) is a Lorentzian in
(<(x(t))^2>)^(1/2). In complex fluids such as polymer solutions, colloid and
protein solutions, and the interior of living cells, P(x,t) may have a
non-Gaussian dependence on x, for example an exponential in |x|. We compare
theoretical forms for FCS and for RICS spectra of two systems in which P(x,t)
is a Gaussian or an exponential in x, but in which the mean-square
displacements are precisely equal at all times. If the G(t) and R(t) arising
from an exponential P(x,t) are interpreted by using the forms for G(t) and R(t)
that are appropriate for a Gaussian P(x,t), the inferred diffusion coefficient
may be substantially in error."  2017-06-05  ['Phillies']
1706.01500 "Readings and Misreadings of J. Willard Gibbs Elementary Principles in
  Statistical Mechanics" "physics.hist-ph cond-mat.stat-mech" "J. Willard Gibbs' Elementary Principles in Statistical Mechanics was the
definitive work of one of America's greatest physicists. Gibbs' book on
statistical mechanics establishes the basic principles and fundamental results
that have flowered into the modern field of statistical mechanics. However, at
a number of points, Gibbs' actual positions on statistical mechanics diverge
from positions that are sometimes ascribed to him by later commentators. The
objective of this paper is to note some of these points, so that Gibbs' actual
teachings are not misrepresented to future generations of students."  2017-06-05  ['Phillies']
1706.01512 "Feynman-Kac Equations for Reaction and Diffusion Processes" cond-mat.stat-mech "This paper provides a theoretical framework of deriving the forward and
backward Feynman-Kac equations for the distribution of functionals of the path
of a particle undergoing both diffusion and chemical reaction. Very general
forms of the equations are obtained. Once given the diffusion type and reaction
rate, a specific forward or backward Feynman-Kac equation can be obtained. The
listed in the paper include the ones for normal/anomalous diffusions and
reactions with linear/nonlinear rates. Using the derived equations, we also
study the occupation time in half-space, the first passage time to a fixed
boundary, and the occupation time in half-space with absorbing or reflecting
boundary conditions."  2017-06-01  "['Hou', 'Deng']"
1706.01526 "Quantum control of topological defects in magnetic systems" "cond-mat.mes-hall quant-ph" "Energy-efficient classical information processing and storage based on
topological defects in magnetic systems have been studied over past decade. In
this work, we introduce a class of macroscopic quantum devices in which a
quantum state is stored in a topological defect of a magnetic insulator. We
propose non-invasive methods to coherently control and readout the quantum
state using ac magnetic fields and magnetic force microscopy, respectively.
This macroscopic quantum spintronic device realizes the magnetic analog of the
three-level rf-SQUID qubit and is built fully out of electrical insulators with
no mobile electrons, thus eliminating decoherence due to the coupling of the
quantum variable to an electronic continuum and energy dissipation due to Joule
heating. For a domain wall sizes of $10-100$~nm and reasonable material
parameters, we estimate qubit operating temperatures in the range of $0.1-1$~K,
a decoherence time of about $0.01-1$~$\mu$s, and the number of Rabi flops
within the coherence time scale in the range of $10^{2}-10^{4}$."  2017-06-05  "['Takei', 'Mohseni']"
1706.01528 "Bose-Einstein Condensation in a Plasmonic Lattice" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.optics quant-ph" "Bose-Einstein condensation is a remarkable manifestation of quantum
statistics and macroscopic quantum coherence. Superconductivity and
superfluidity have their origin in Bose-Einstein condensation. Ultracold
quantum gases have provided condensates close to the original ideas of Bose and
Einstein, while condensation of polaritons and magnons have introduced novel
concepts of non-equilibrium condensation. Here, we demonstrate a Bose-Einstein
condensate (BEC) of surface plasmon polaritons in lattice modes of a metal
nanoparticle array. Interaction of the nanoscale-confined surface plasmons with
a room-temperature bath of dye molecules enables thermalization and
condensation in picoseconds. The ultrafast thermalization and condensation
dynamics are revealed by an experiment that exploits itinerant thermalization
and the open cavity character of the system. A crossover from BEC to usual
lasing is realized by tailoring the band structure. This new condensate is a
manifestation of macroscopic quantum coherence in unprecedented time-scales,
with promise for future technologies due to its room-temperature and on-chip
nature."  2017-06-05  "['Hakala', 'Moilanen', 'Vakevainen', 'Guo', 'Martikainen', 'Daskalakis', 'Rekola', 'Julku', 'Torma']"
1706.01532 "Coupling emission from single localized defects in 2D semiconductor to
  surface plasmon polaritons" "cond-mat.mes-hall physics.optics quant-ph" "Coupling of an atom-like emitter to surface plasmons provides a path toward
significant optical nonlinearity, which is essential in quantum information
processing and quantum networks. A large coupling strength requires
nanometer-scale positioning accuracy of the emitter near the surface of the
plasmonic structure, which is challenging. We demonstrate the coupling of
single localized defects in a tungsten diselenide (WSe2) monolayer self-aligned
to the surface plasmon mode of a silver nanowire. The silver nanowire induces a
strain gradient on the monolayer at the overlapping area, leading to the
formation of localized defect emission sites that are intrinsically close to
the surface plasmon. We measure a coupling efficiency with a lower bound of 39%
from the emitter into the plasmonic mode of the silver nanowire. This technique
offers a way to achieve efficient coupling between plasmonic structures and
localized defects of 2D semiconductors."  2017-06-05  "['Cai', 'Dutta', 'Aghaeimeibodi', 'Yang', 'Nah', 'Fourkas', 'Waks']"
1706.01536 "Double-zero-index structural waveguides" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We report on the theoretical and experimental realization of a
double-zero-index elastic waveguide and on the corresponding acoustic cloacking
and supercoupling effects. The proposed waveguide uses geometric tapers in
order to induce Dirac-like cones at $\vec{k} = 0$ due to accidental degeneracy.
The nature of the degeneracy is explored by a $k\cdot p$ perturbation method
adapted to thin structural waveguides. Results confirm the linear nature of the
dispersion around the degeneracy and the possibility to map the material to
effective medium properties. Effective parameters, numerically extracted using
boundary medium theory, confirm that the phononic waveguide maps into a double
zero index material. Numerical and experimental results confirm the expected
cloacking and supecoupling effects typical of zero index materials."  2017-06-05  "['Zhu', 'Semperlotti']"
1706.01545 "Terahertz-driven magnetism dynamics in the orthoferrite DyFeO3" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Terahertz driven magnetization dynamics are explored in the orthoferrite
DyFeO3. A high-field, single cycle THz pulse is used to excite magnon modes in
the crystal together with other resonances. Both quasi-ferromagnetic and
quasi-antiferromagnetic magnon modes are excited and appear in time-resolved
measurements of the Faraday rotation. Other modes are also observed in the
measurements of the time-resolved linear birefringence. Analysis of the
excitation process reveals that despite larger than expected electro-optical
susceptibility it is mainly the THz magnetic field that couples to the
quasi-ferromagnetic and quasi-antiferromagnetic magnon branches." 10.1063/1.4908186 2017-06-05  "['Reid', 'Rasing', 'Pisarev', 'Dürr', 'Hoffmann']"
1706.01555 "Observation of an environmentally insensitive solid state spin defect in
  diamond" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci quant-ph" "Engineering coherent systems is a central goal of quantum science. Color
centers in diamond are a promising approach, with the potential to combine the
coherence of atoms with the scalability of a solid state platform. However, the
solid environment can adversely impact coherence. For example, phonon- mediated
spin relaxation can induce spin decoherence, and electric field noise can
change the optical transition frequency over time. We report a novel color
center with insensitivity to both of these sources of environmental
decoherence: the neutral charge state of silicon vacancy (SiV0). Through
careful material engineering, we achieve over 80% conversion of implanted
silicon to SiV0. SiV0 exhibits excellent spin properties, with spin-lattice
relaxation times (T1) approaching one minute and coherence times (T2)
approaching one second, as well as excellent optical properties, with
approximately 90% of its emission into the zero-phonon line and near-transform
limited optical linewidths. These combined properties make SiV0 a promising
defect for quantum networks."  2017-06-05  "['Rose', 'Huang', 'Zhang', 'Tyryshkin', 'Sangtawesin', 'Srinivasan', 'Loudin', 'Markham', 'Edmonds', 'Twitchen', 'Lyon', 'de Leon']"
1706.01564 "Origins of singlet fission in solid pentacene from an ab initio
  Green's-function approach" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "We develop a new first-principles approach to predict and understand rates of
singlet fission with an ab initio Green's-function formalism based on many-body
perturbation theory. Starting with singlet and triplet excitons computed from a
GW plus Bethe-Salpeter equation approach, we calculate the exciton--bi-exciton
coupling to lowest order in the Coulomb interaction, assuming a final state
consisting of two non-interacting spin-correlated triplets with finite
center-of-mass momentum. For crystalline pentacene, symmetries dictate that the
only purely Coulombic fission decay from a bright singlet state requires a
final state consisting of two inequivalent nearly degenerate triplets of
nonzero, equal and opposite, center-of-mass momenta. For such a process, we
predict a singlet lifetime of 40 to 150 fs, in very good agreement with
experimental data, indicating that this process can dominate singlet fission in
crystalline pentacene. Our approach is general and provides a framework for
predicting and understanding multiexciton interactions in solids."  2017-06-05  "['Refaely-Abramson', 'da Jornada', 'Louie', 'Neaton']"
1706.01597 "Spinon magnetic resonance of quantum spin liquids" cond-mat.str-el "We describe electron spin resonance in a quantum spin liquid with significant
spin-orbit coupling. We find that the resonance directly probes spinon
continuum which makes it an efficient and informative probe of exotic
excitations of the spin liquid. Specifically, we consider spinon resonance of
three different spinon mean-field Hamiltonians, obtained with the help of
projective symmetry group analysis, which model a putative quantum spin liquid
state of the triangular rare-earth antiferromagnet YbMgGaO4. The band of
absorption is found to be very broad and exhibit strong van Hove singularities
of single spinon spectrum as well as pronounced polarization dependence."  2017-06-05  "['Luo', 'Lake', 'Mei', 'Starykh']"
1706.01619 "Driven spin wave modes in XY ferromagnet: Nonequilibrium phase
  transition" cond-mat.stat-mech "The dynamical responses of XY ferromagnet driven by linearly polarised
propagating and standing magnetic field wave have been studied by Monte Carlo
simulation in three dimensions. In the case of propagating magnetic field wave
(with specified amplitude, frequency and the wavelength), the low temperature
dynamical mode is a propagating spin wave and the system becomes structureless
or random in the high temperature. A dynamical symmetry breaking phase
transition is observed at a finite (nonzero) temperature. This symmetry
breaking is confirmed by studying the statistical distribution of the angle of
the spin vector. The dynamic nonequilibrium transition temperature was found to
decrease as the amplitude of the propagating magnetic field wave increases. A
comprehensive phase boundary is drawn in the plane formed by temperature and
amplitude of propagating field wave. The phase boundary was observed to shrink
(in the low temperature side) for longer wavelength of the propagating magnetic
wave. In the case of standing magnetic field wave, the low temperature
excitation is a standing spin wave which becomes structureless (or random) in
the high temperature. Here also, like the case of propagating magnetic wave, a
dynamical symmetry breaking nonequilibrium phase transition was observed. A
comprehensive phase boundary is drawn. Unlike the case of propagating magnetic
wave, the phase boundary does not show any systematic variation with the
wavelength of the standing magnetic field wave."  2017-06-06  ['Acharyya']
1706.01622 "Quantitative characterization of spin-orbit torques in Pt/Co/Pt
  /Co/Ta/BTO heterostructure on the magnetization azimuthal angle dependence" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Substantial understanding of spin-orbit interactions in heavy-metal
(HM)/ferromagnet (FM) heterostructures is crucial in developing spin-orbit
torque (SOT) spintronics devices utilizing spin Hall and Rashba effects. Though
the study of SOT effective fields dependence on the out-of-plane magnetization
angle has been relatively extensive, the understanding of in-plane
magnetization angle dependence remains unknown. Here, we analytically propose a
method to compute the SOT effective fields as a function of the in-plane
magnetization angle using harmonic Hall technique in perpendicular magnetic
anisotropy (PMA) structures. Two different samples with PMA,
Pt/Co/Pt/Co/Ta/BaTiO3 (BTO) test sample and Pt/Co/Pt/Co/Ta reference sample are
studied using the derived formula. Our measurements reveal that only the
dampinglike field of the test sample with BTO capping layer exhibits an
in-plane magnetization angle dependence while no angular dependence is found in
the reference sample. The presence of the BTO layer in the test sample, which
gives rise to a Rashba effect at the interface, is ascribed as the source of
the angular dependence of the the dampinglike field."  2017-06-06  "['Engel', 'Goolaup', 'Luo', 'Lew']"
1706.01624 "Structural, electronic, magnetic and transport properties of equiatomic
  quaternary Heusler Alloy CoRhMnGe: Theory and Experiment" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "In this work, we present structural, electronic, magnetic, mechanical and
transport properties of equiatomic quaternary Heusler alloy, CoRhMnGe using
both theoretical and experimental techniques. A detailed structural analysis is
performed using X-ray diffraction(XRD) and extended X-ray absorption fine
structure(EXAFS) spectroscopy. The alloy is found to crystallize in Y-type
structure having space group $F\bar{4}3m$ (\# 216). The ab-initio simulation
pedict half-metallic ferromagnetic characteristics leading to large spin
polarization. The calculated magnetization is found to be in fair agreement
with experiment as well as those predicted by the Slater-Pauling rule, which is
a prerequisite for half-metallicity. The magnetic transition
temperature($\mathrm{T_{C}}$) is found to be $\sim 760$ K. Measured electrical
resistivity in the temperature range 2-400 K also gives an indication of
half-metallic behavior. Simulated resistivity matches fairly well with those
measured, with the temperature dependant carrier relaxation time lying in the
range $1-2$ fs. Effect of hydrostatic pressure on electronic structure,
magnetic and mechanical properties are investigated in detail. The alloy is
found to preserve half-metallic characteristics upto 30.27 GPa beyond which it
transit to metallic phase. No magnetic phase transition is found to occur in
the whole range of pressure. The system also satisfies the Born-Huang criteria
for mechanical stability upto a limited range of pressure. All these properties
make CoRhMnGe alloy promising for spintronics devices."  2017-06-06  "['Rani', 'Enamullah', 'Suresh', 'Yadav', 'Jha', 'Bhattacharyya', 'Varma', 'Alam']"
1706.01637 "Quantum Phase Transition and Entanglement in Topological Quantum Wires" "quant-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "We investigate the quantum phase transition of the Su-Schrieffer-Heeger (SSH)
model by inspecting the two-site entanglements in the ground state. It is shown
that the topological phase transition of the SSH model is signified by a
nonanalyticity of local entanglement, which becomes discontinuous for finite
even system sizes, and that this nonanalyticity has a topological origin. Such
a peculiar singularity has a universal nature in one-dimensional topological
phase transitions of noninteracting fermions. We make this clearer by pointing
out that an analogous quantity in the Kitaev chain exhibiting the identical
nonanalyticity is the local electron density. As a byproduct, we show that
there exists a different type of phase transition, whereby the pattern of the
two-site entanglements undergoes a sudden change. This transition is
characterised solely by quantum information theory and does not accompany the
closure of the spectral gap. We analyse the scaling behaviours of the
entanglement in the vicinities of the transition points." 10.1038/s41598-017-02717-w 2017-06-06  "['Cho', 'Kim']"
1706.01639 "Spin-orbit-torque MRAM: from uniaxial to unidirectional switching" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "With ultra-fast writing capacity and high reliability, the spin-orbit torque
is regarded as a promising alternative to fabricate next-generation magnetic
random access memory. However, the three-terminal setup can be challenging when
scaling down the cell size. In particular, the thermal stability is an
important issue. Here we demonstrate that the current-pulse-induced
perpendicular exchange bias can significantly relieve the concern of thermal
stability. The switching of the exchange bias direction is induced by the
spin-orbit torque when passing current pulses through the Pt/Co system with an
inserted IrMn antiferromagnetic layer. Manipulating the current-pulse-induced
exchange bias, spin-orbit-torque switching at zero field between states with
unidirectional anisotropy is achieved and the thermal agitation of the magnetic
moment is strongly suppressed. The spin-orbit torque mechanism provides an
innovative method to generate and to control the exchange bias by electrical
means, which enables us to realize the new switching mechanism of highly stable
perpendicular memory cells."  2017-06-06  "['Tsai', 'Lin', 'Huang', 'Lin', 'Lai']"
1706.01646 "Diffuse-interface polycrystal plasticity: Expressing grain boundaries as
  geometrically necessary dislocations" "physics.comp-ph cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "The standard way of modeling plasticity in polycrystals is by using the
crystal plasticity model for single crystals in each grain, and imposing
suitable traction and slip boundary conditions across grain boundaries. In this
fashion, the system is modeled as a collection of boundary-value problems with
matching boundary conditions. In this paper, we develop a diffuse-interface
crystal plasticity model for polycrystalline materials that results in a single
boundary-value problem with a single crystal as the reference configuration.
Using a multiplicative decomposition of the deformation gradient into lattice
and plastic parts, i.e. F(X,t) = F^L(X,t) F^P(X,t), an initial stress-free
polycrystal is constructed by imposing F^L to be a piecewise constant rotation
field R^0(X), and F^P = R^0(X)^T, thereby having F(X,0) = I, and zero elastic
strain. This model serves as a precursor to higher order crystal plasticity
models with grain boundary energy and evolution."  2017-06-06  "['Admal', 'Po', 'Marian']"
1706.01652 "Evidence of a two-stage melting of Wigner solids in two dimensions" cond-mat.str-el "Two-dimensional (2D) solid-liquid transition
(SLT)~\cite{Mermin1966Absence,Mermin1968Crystalline,Kosterlitz1972Long}
concerns fundamental concepts of long-range correlations vital to magnetism,
superconductivity, superfluidity, and topological matters. A long sought-after
example is the melting of a Wigner Crystal (WC)~\cite{Wigner1934Interaction} of
electrons. Detection efforts have targeted distinctive collective modes such as
pinning by disorder, resonant-frequency absorption of Goldstone modes, and
melting transition. However, only one-step second-order melting of
softly-pinned modes was reported. Without the evidence of genuine pinning as
exhibited in the charge density waves (CDWs)~\cite{PinningCDW}, these modes are
likely intermediate phases which are only part of a complete SLT. To verify if
there is a WC-intermediate phase transition will not only provide a solid proof
of a WC, but will also unveil the nature of the SLT in relation to the
two-stage Kosterlitz-Thouless (KT)
model~\cite{Kosterlitz1972Long,Kosterlitz1973Ordering,Halperin1978Theory,Nelson1979Dislocation,hexatic_ceperley,hexatic_nelson,
Young1979Melting}. %(or dislocation pairs) above a critical temperature $T_c$.
Through transport studies of ultra-dilute high-purity 2D systems, this work
presents evidence for not only a WC, but also for a two-stage WC-liquid SLT
mediated by a first-order WC-intermediate phase transition."  2017-06-06  "['Huang', 'Knighton', 'Wu', 'Serafin', 'Pfeiffer', 'West']"
1706.01669 "Superior thermoelectric performance via ""anti-reflection"" enabled
  double-barrier structures" "physics.app-ph cond-mat.mes-hall" "We demonstrate theoretically using the atomistic non-equilibrium Green's
function formalism with the inclusion of self-consistent charging, the design
of a superior thermoelectric generator based on an ""anti-reflection"" coated
double barrier resonant tunnelling diode. Unlike a typical double barrier
device, we show that enabling the anti-reflection design facilitates a ""boxcar""
type feature in its transmission spectrum, which significantly enhances the
thermoelectric performance. It is demonstrated that the best operating regime
of this device offers a maximum power in the range of $0.7$ to $0.9 MW/m^{2}$
at efficiencies ranging from $46$ to $54\%$ of Carnot efficiency. The physics
of charge and heat transport in the ballistic regime of operation helps us gain
additional insights on how a large number of transverse current carrying modes
boost the output power and simultaneously how the diminishing effects of
high-energy parasitic currents aid the efficiency. Finally, a comparative study
with a conventional double barrier thermoelectric is presented in terms of
standard performance parameters which clearly reveals the performance benefits
of enabling an anti-reflection coating."  2017-06-06  "['Mukherjee', 'Priyadarshi', 'Muralidharan']"
1706.01675 "Generalized arcsine laws for fractional Brownian motion" "cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.MP" "The three arcsine laws for Brownian motion are a cornerstone of extreme-value
statistics. For a Brownian $B_t$ starting from the origin, and evolving during
time $T$, one considers the following three observables: (i) the duration $t_+$
the process is positive, (ii) the time $t_{\rm last}$ the process last visits
the origin, and (iii) the time $t_{\rm max}$ when it achieves its maximum (or
minimum). All three observables have the same cumulative probability
distribution expressed as an arcsine function, thus the name of arcsine laws.
We show how these laws change for fractional Brownian motion $X_t$, a
non-Markovian Gaussian process indexed by the Hurst exponent $H$. It
generalizes standard Brownian motion (i.e. $H=\tfrac{1}{2}$). We obtain the
three probabilities using a perturbative expansion in $\epsilon =
H-\tfrac{1}{2}$. While all three probabilities are different, this distinction
can only be made at second order in $\epsilon$. Our results are confirmed to
high precision by extensive numerical simulations."  2017-06-06  "['Sadhu', 'Delorme', 'Wiese']"
1706.01677 "Excitation energy dependence of Raman spectra of few-layer WS2" cond-mat.mes-hall "Raman spectra of few-layer WS2 have been measured with up to seven excitation
energies, and peculiar resonance effects are observed. The two-phonon acoustic
phonon scattering signal close to the main E2g1 peak is stronger than the main
peaks for excitations near the A or B exciton states. The low-frequency Raman
spectra show a series of shear and layer-breathing modes that are useful for
determining the number of layers. In addition, hitherto unidentified peaks (X1
and X2), which do not seem to depend on the layer thickness, are observed near
resonances with exciton states. The polarization dependences of the two peaks
are different: X1 vanishes in cross polarization, but X2 does not. At the
resonance with the A exciton state, the Raman-forbidden, lowest-frequency shear
mode for odd number of layers appears as strong as that for the allowed case of
even number of layers. This mode also exhibits a strong Breit-Wigner-Fano line
shape and an anomalous polarization behavior at this resonance."  2017-06-06  "['Yang', 'Lee', 'Cheong']"
1706.01684 "Temperature scaling of the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction in the spin
  wave spectrum" cond-mat.other "The temperature scaling of the micromagnetic Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya exchange
interaction is calculated for the whole range of temperature. We use Green's
function theory to derive the finite-temperature spin wave spectrum of
ferromagnetic systems described by a classical atomistic spin model
Hamiltonian. Within this model, we find universal expressions for the
temperature scaling not only of the Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction but also
of the Heisenberg exchange stiffness and the single-ion anisotropy. In the
spirit of multiscale models, we establish a clear connection between the
atomistic interactions and the temperature-dependent coefficients in the spin
wave spectrum and in the micromagnetic free energy functional. We demonstrate
that the corrections to mean-field theory or the random phase approximation for
the temperature scaling of Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya and Heisenberg exchange
interactions assume very similar forms. In the presence of thermal fluctuations
and Dzyaloshinsky-Moriya interaction an anisotropy-like term emerges in the
spin wave spectrum which, at low temperature, increases with temperature, in
contrast to the decreasing single-ion anisotropy. We evaluate the accuracy of
the theoretical method by comparing it to the spin wave spectrum calculated
from Monte Carlo simulations."  2017-06-06  "['Rózsa', 'Atxitia', 'Nowak']"
1706.01685 "Coupling between a charge density wave and magnetism in an Heusler
  material" cond-mat.str-el "The Prototypical magnetic memory shape alloy Ni$_2$MnGa undergoes various
phase transitions as a function of temperature, pressure, and doping. In the
low-temperature phases below 260 K, an incommensurate structural modulation
occurs along the [110] direction which is thought to arise from softening of a
phonon mode. It is not at present clear how this phenomenon is related, if at
all, to the magnetic memory effect. Here we report time-resolved measurements
which track both the structural and magnetic components of the phase transition
from the modulated cubic phase as it is brought into the high-symmetry phase.
The results suggest that the photoinduced demagnetization modifies the Fermi
surface in regions that couple strongly to the periodicity of the structural
modulation through the nesting vector. The amplitude of the periodic lattice
distortion, however, appears to be less affected by the demagnetizaton."  2017-06-06  "['Lantz', 'Neugebauer', 'Kubli', 'Savoini', 'Abreu', 'Tasca', 'Dornes', 'Esposito', 'Rittmann', 'Windsor', 'Beaud', 'Ingold', 'Johnson']"
1706.01687 "Sculpting the Vertex: Manipulating the Configuration Space Topography
  and Topology of Origami Vertices to Design Mechanical Robustness" cond-mat.soft "The geometric, aesthetic, and mathematical elegance of origami is being
recognized as a powerful pathway to self-assembly of micro and nano-scale
machines with programmable mechanical properties. The typical approach to
designing the mechanical response of an ideal origami machine is to include
mechanisms where mechanical constraints transform applied forces into a desired
motion along a narrow set of degrees of freedom. In fact, to date, most design
approaches focus on building up complex mechanisms from simple ones in ways
that preserve each individual mechanism's degree of freedom (DOF), with
examples ranging from simple robotic arms to homogenous arrays of identical
vertices, such as the well-known Miura-ori. However, such approaches typically
require tight fabrication tolerances, and often suffer from parasitic
compliance. In this work, we demonstrate a technique in which
high-degree-of-freedom mechanisms associated with single vertices are
heterogeneously combined so that the coupled phase spaces of neighboring
vertices are pared down to a controlled range of motions. This approach has the
advantage that it produces mechanisms that retain the DOF at each vertex, are
robust against fabrication tolerances and parasitic compliance, but
nevertheless effectively constrain the range of motion of the entire machine.
We demonstrate the utility of this approach by mapping out the configuration
space for the modified Miura-ori vertex of degree 6, and show that when strung
together, their combined configuration spaces create mechanisms that isolate
deformations, constrain the configuration topology of neighboring vertices, or
lead to sequential bistable folding throughout the entire origami sheet."  2017-06-06  "['Liu', 'Evans', 'Silverberg', 'Santangelo', 'Lang', 'Hull', 'Cohen']"
1706.01691 "Microscopic theory for the time irreversibility and the entropy
  production" cond-mat.stat-mech "In stochastic thermodynamics, the entropy production of a thermodynamic
system is defined by the irreversibility measured by the logarithm of the ratio
of the path probabilities in the forward and reverse processes. We derive the
relation between the irreversibility and the entropy production starting from
the deterministic equations of motion of the whole system consisting of a
physical system and a surrounding thermal environment. The physical system is
driven by a nonconservative force. The derivation assumes the Markov
approximation that the environmental degrees of freedom equilibrate
instantaneously. Our approach concerns the irreversibility of the whole system
not only the irreversibility of the physical system only. This approach
provides a guideline for the choice of the proper reverse process to a given
forward process. We demonstrate our idea with an example of a charged particle
in the presence of a time-varying magnetic field."  2017-06-06  "['Chun', 'Noh']"
1706.01692 "Type-I and type-II topological nodal superconductors with $s$-wave
  interaction" cond-mat.supr-con "Topological nodal superconductors are generally realized based on
unconventional pairings. In this work, we propose a minimal model to realize
these topological nodal phases with only $s$-wave interaction. In our model the
linear and quadratic spin-orbit couplings along the two directions break the
isotropy in momentum space and introduce effective unconventional pairings on
the Fermi surface. This model may support different nodal superconducting
phases characterized by either winding number in BDI class or Pfaffian in D
class at the particle-hole invariant axes. In the vicinity of the nodal points
the effective Hamiltonian can be described by either type-I or type-II Dirac
equation; and the crossover between these two nodal points can be driven by
external Zeeman fields. We show that these nodal phases are robust against weak
disorders, thus are possible to be realized in experiments with real materials.
The smoking-gun evidences to verify these phases based on scanning tunneling
spectroscopy are also briefly discussed."  2017-06-06  "['Huang', 'Yang', 'Xu', 'Gong']"
1706.01700 "Quantum interferometry in multi-mode systems" "quant-ph cond-mat.quant-gas" "We consider the situation when the signal propagating through each arm of an
interferometer has a complicated multi-mode structure. We find the relation
between the particle-entanglement and the possibility to surpass the shot-noise
limit of the phase estimation. Our results are general---they apply to pure and
mixed states of identical and distinguishable particles (or combinations of
both), for a fixed and fluctuating number of particles. We also show that the
method for detecting the entanglement often used in two-mode system can give
misleading results when applied to the multi-mode case."  2017-06-06  ['Chwedenczuk']
1706.01709 "Influence of elastic strain on the thermodynamics and kinetics of
  lithium vacancy in bulk LiCoO2" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "The influence of elastic strain on the lithium vacancy formation and
migration in bulk LiCoO2 is evaluated by means of first-principles calculations
within density functional theory (DFT). Strain dependent energies are
determined directly from defective cells and also within linear elasticity
theory from the elastic dipole tensor (Gij) for ground state and saddle point
configurations. We analyze finite size-effects in the calculation of Gij,
compare the predictions of the linear elastic model with those obtained from
direct calculations of defective cells under strain and discuss the
differences. Based on our data, we calculate the variations in vacancy
concentration and mobility due to the presence of external strain in bulk
LiCoO2 cathodes. Our results reveal that elastic in-plane and out-of-plane
strains can significantly change the ionic conductivity of bulk LiCoO2 by an
order of magnitude and thus strongly affect the performance of Li-secondary
batteries."  2017-06-06  "['Moradabadi', 'Kaghazchi', 'Rohrer', 'Albe']"
1706.01711 "Possible high-$T_c$ superconductivity due to incipient narrow bands
  originating from hidden ladders in Ruddlesden-Popper compounds" cond-mat.supr-con "We introduce a concept of hidden ladders for the bilayer Ruddlesden-Popper
type compounds: While the crystal structure is bilayer, $d_{xz}$ ($d_{yz}$)
orbitals in the relevant $t_{2g}$ sector of the transition metal form a two-leg
ladder along $x$ ($y$), since the $d_{xz}$ ($d_{yz}$) electrons primarily hop
along the leg direction $x$ ($y$) on top of the rung $z$ direction. We predict
that Sr$_3$Mo$_2$O$_7$ and Sr$_3$Cr$_2$O$_7$ are candidates for the
hidden-ladder material with a right position of $E_F$, from a first-principles
band calculation. Based on the analysis of Eliashberg equation for these
systems, we propose a possible occurrence of high temperature superconductivity
in these materials arising from the interband pair scattering processes between
the wide and ""incipient"" narrow bands on the ladder."  2017-06-06  "['Ogura', 'Aoki', 'Kuroki']"
1706.01715 "Validity of the Rosenfeld relationship: A comparative study of the
  network forming NTW model and other simple liquids" cond-mat.soft "In this paper we explore the validity of the Rosenfeld and the Dzugutov
relation for the Lennard-Jones (LJ) system, its repulsive counterpart, the WCA
system and a network forming liquid, the NTW model. We find that for all the
systems both the relations are valid at high temperature regime with an
universal exponent close to 0.8. Similar to that observed for the simple
liquids, the LJ and the WCA systems show a breakdown of the scaling laws at the
low temperature regime. However for the NTW model, which is a simple liquid,
these scaling laws are valid even at lower temperature regime similar to that
found for ionic melts. Thus we find that the NTW model has mixed
characteristics of simple liquids and ionic melts. Our study further reveals a
quantitative relationship between the Rosenfeld and the Arrhenius relations.
For strong liquids, the validity of the Rosenfeld relation in the low
temperature regime is connected to it following the Arrhenius behaviour in that
regime. Finally we explore the role of pair entropy and residual multiparticle
entropy in the dynamics as a function of fragility of the systems."  2017-06-06  "['Banerjee', 'Nandi', 'Bhattacharyya']"
1706.01717 "Nonmonotonic superconductivity and spin-orbit interaction across the
  phase diagram of the (111) LaAlO$_3$/SrTiO$_3$ interface" "cond-mat.supr-con cond-mat.str-el" "We measure the gate voltage ($V_g$) dependence of the superconducting
properties and the spin-orbit interaction in (111) oriented LaAlO$_3$/SrTiO$_3$
interface. Superconductivity is observed in a dome-shaped region in the carrier
density-temperature phase diagram with the maxima of superconducting transition
temperature $T_c$ and the upper critical fields lying at the same $V_g$. The
spin-orbit interaction extracted from weak-antilocalisation measurements
follows the same gate voltage dependence as $T_c$, which was further confirmed
by the spin orbit energy determined from the superconducting parameters. The
correlation between superconductivity and spin-orbit interaction as well as the
enhancement of parallel upper critical field, well beyond the
Chandrasekhar-Clogston limit suggest an unconventional link between spin
texture and superconductivity."  2017-06-06  "['Rout', 'Maniv', 'Dagan']"
1706.01760 "Electron-assisted magnetization tunneling in single spin systems" cond-mat.mes-hall "Magnetic excitations of single atoms on surfaces have been widely studied
experimentally in the past decade. Lately, systems with unprecedented magnetic
stability started to emerge. Here, we present a general theoretical
investigation of the stability of rare-earth magnetic atoms exposed to crystal
or ligand fields of various symmetry and to exchange scattering with an
electron bath. By analyzing the properties of the atomic wavefunction, we show
that certain combinations of symmetry and total angular momentum are inherently
stable against first or even higher order interactions with electrons. Further,
we investigate the effect of an external magnetic field on the magnetic
stability."  2017-06-06  "['Balashov', 'Karlewski', 'Märkl', 'Schön', 'Wulfhekel']"
1706.01772 "Quantum formalism for classical statistics" "quant-ph cond-mat.stat-mech" "In static classical statistical systems the problem of information transport
from a boundary to the bulk finds a simple description in terms of wave
functions or density matrices. While the transfer matrix formalism is a type of
Heisenberg picture for this problem, we develop here the associated
Schr\""odinger picture that keeps track of the local probabilistic information.
The transport of the probabilistic information between neighboring
hypersurfaces obeys a linear evolution equation, and therefore the
superposition principle for the possible solutions. Operators are associated to
local observables, with rules for the computation of expectation values similar
to quantum mechanics. We discuss how non-commutativity naturally arises in this
setting. Also other features characteristic of quantum mechanics, such as
complex structure, change of basis or symmetry transformations, can be found in
classical statistics once formulated in terms of wave functions or density
matrices. They are not always easily visible on the level of the action. We
construct for every quantum system an equivalent classical statistical system.
For a suitable choice of local observables in the classical statistical system
we can compute all expectation values and correlations of observables in the
quantum system from the local probabilistic information of the associated
classical statistical system."  2017-06-02  ['Wetterich']
1706.01775 "Anomalous frequency-dependent ionic conductivity of lesion-laden
  human-brain tissue" "physics.med-ph cond-mat.soft" "We study the effect of lesions on our four-electrode measurements of the
ionic conductivity of (1 cm3) samples of human brain excised from patients
undergoing pediatric epilepsy surgery. For most (about 94 %) samples the
low-frequency ionic conductivity rises upon increasing the applied frequency.
We attributed this behavior to the long-range (0.4 mm) diffusion of solvated
sodium cations before encountering impenetrable blockages such as cell
membranes, blood vessels and cell walls. By contrast, the low-frequency ionic
conductivity of some (6 %) brain tissue samples falls with increasing applied
frequency. We attribute this unusual frequency-dependence to the electric-field
induced liberation of sodium cations from traps introduced by the unusually
severe pathology observed in samples from these patients. Thus, the anomalous
frequency-dependence of the ionic conductivity indicates trap-producing brain
lesions."  2017-06-04  "['Emin', 'Akhtari', 'Fallah', 'Vinters', 'Mathern']"
1706.01795 "From creation and annihilation operators to statistics" cond-mat.stat-mech "A procedure to derive the partition function of non-interacting particles
with exotic or intermediate statistics is presented. The partition function is
directly related to the associated creation and annihilation operators that
obey some specific commutation or anti-commutation relations. The cases of
Gentile statistics, quons, Polychronakos statistics, and ewkons are considered.
Ewkons statistics was recently derived from the assumption of free diffusion in
energy space (Phys. Rev. E 94, 062115, 2016); an ideal gas of ewkons has
negative pressure, a feature that makes them suitable for the description of
dark energy."  2017-06-06  ['Hoyuelos']
1706.01796 "Magnetic Behavior and Spin-Lattice Coupling in Cleavable, van der Waals
  Layered CrCl3 Crystals" "cond-mat.other cond-mat.mtrl-sci" "CrCl3 is a layered insulator that undergoes a crystallographic phase
transition below room temperature and orders antiferromagnetically at low
temperature. Weak van der Waals bonding between the layers and ferromagnetic
in-plane magnetic order make it a promising material for obtaining atomically
thin magnets and creating van der Waals heterostructures. In this work we have
grown crystals of CrCl3, revisited the structural and thermodynamic properties
of the bulk material, and explored mechanical exfoliation of the crystals. We
find two distinct anomalies in the heat capacity at 14 and 17 K confirming that
the magnetic order develops in two stages on cooling, with ferromagnetic
correlations forming before long range antiferromagnetic order develops between
them. This scenario is supported by magnetization data. A magnetic phase
diagram is constructed from the heat capacity and magnetization results. We
also find an anomaly in the magnetic susceptibility at the crystallographic
phase transition, indicating some coupling between the magnetism and the
lattice. First principles calculations accounting for van der Waals
interactions also indicate spin-lattice coupling, and find multiple nearly
degenerate crystallographic and magnetic structures consistent with the
experimental observations. Finally, we demonstrate that monolayer and few-layer
CrCl3 specimens can be produced from the bulk crystals by exfoliation,
providing a path for the study of heterostructures and magnetism in ultrathin
crystals down to the monolayer limit."  2017-06-06  "['McGuire', 'Clark', 'KC', 'Chance', 'Jellison,', 'Cooper', 'Xu', 'Sales']"
1706.01811 "Generic first-order nematic-isotropic phase transition of orientational
  phases with polyhedral symmetries" "cond-mat.stat-mech cond-mat.soft" "Polyhedral nematics are exotic orientational phases that possess a complex
internal symmetry and may be realized in colloidal and molecular liquid-crystal
systems. Although their classification has been known for a long time, their
phase transitions to isotropic liquids remain largely unexplored except for a
few symmetries. In this work, we utilize a recently introduced non-Abelian
gauge theory to explore the nematic-isotropic phase transition for all
three-dimensional polyhedral nematics. The gauge theory can readily be applied
to nematic phases with an arbitrary point-group symmetry, including those where
traditional Landau methods and the associated lattice models may become too
involved to implement owing to a tensor order parameter of too high rank or
(the absence of) mirror symmetries. From our Monte Carlo simulations, we find
that the nematic-isotropic transition is generically first-order for all
polyhedral symmetries. Moreover, we show that our results are consistent with a
renormalization scenario, as well as with other lattice models for symmetries
already studied in the literature. We argue that extreme fine tuning is
required to promote those transitions to second order ones."  2017-06-06  "['Liu', 'Greitemann', 'Pollet']"
1706.01822 "Calculation of the Critical Temperature of a Dilute Bose Gas in the
  Bogoliubov Approximation" "cond-mat.quant-gas math-ph math.MP" "We give a variational formulation of the famous Bogoliubov approximation for
a weakly-interacting translation-invariant Bose gas. The resulting variational
model turns out to be a more accurate approximation than the usual Bogoliubov
approach. In three dimensions this leads to a novel derivation of the critical
temperature change in the dilute limit, and the same derivation in two
dimensions produces a critical temperature that matches predictions for the
Kosterlitz-Thouless transition temperature. Our expression for the 3D critical
temperature is in better agreement with numerical simulations than both a
classic result by Lee and Yang and subsequent calculations. We also review
general properties of the Bogoliubov variational model."  2017-06-06  "['Napiórkowski', 'Reuvers', 'Solovej']"
1706.01840 "Designing magnetism in Fe-based Heusler alloys: a machine learning
  approach" cond-mat.mtrl-sci "Combining material informatics and high-throughput electronic structure
calculations offers the possibility of a rapid characterization of complex
magnetic materials. Here we demonstrate that datasets of electronic properties
calculated at the ab initio level can be effectively used to identify and
understand physical trends in magnetic materials, thus opening new avenues for
accelerated materials discovery. Following a data-centric approach, we utilize
a database of Heusler alloys calculated at the density functional theory level
to identify the ideal ions neighbouring Fe in the $X_2$Fe$Z$ Heusler prototype.
The hybridization of Fe with the nearest neighbour $X$ ion is found to cause
redistribution of the on-site Fe charge and a net increase of its magnetic
moment proportional to the valence of $X$. Thus, late transition metals are
ideal Fe neighbours for producing high-moment Fe-based Heusler magnets. At the
same time a thermodynamic stability analysis is found to restrict $Z$ to main
group elements. Machine learning regressors, trained to predict magnetic moment
and volume of Heusler alloys, are used to determine the magnetization for all
materials belonging to the proposed prototype. We find that Co$_2$Fe$Z$ alloys,
and in particular Co$_2$FeSi, maximize the magnetization, which reaches values
up to 1.2T. This is in good agreement with both ab initio and experimental
data. Furthermore, we identify the Cu$_2$Fe$Z$ family to be a cost-effective
materials class, offering a magnetization of approximately 0.65T."  2017-06-06  "['Žic', 'Archer', 'Sanvito']"
1706.01848 "Structural properties of thin-film ferromagnetic topological insulators" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.mes-hall" "We present a comprehensive study of the crystal structure of the thin-film,
ferromagnetic topological insulator (Bi, Sb)$_{2-x}$V$_x$Te$_3$. The
dissipationless quantum anomalous Hall edge states it manifests are of
particular interest for spintronics, as a natural spin filter or pure spin
source, and as qubits for topological quantum computing. For ranges typically
used in experiments, we investigate the effect of doping, substrate choice and
film thickness on the (Bi, Sb)$_2$Te$_3$ unit cell using high-resolution X-ray
diffractometry. Scanning transmission electron microscopy and energy-dispersive
X-ray spectroscopy measurements provide local structural and interfacial
information. We find that the unit cell is unaffected in-plane by vanadium
doping changes, and remains unchanged over a thickness range of 4--10 quintuple
layers (1 QL $\approx$ 1 nm). The in-plane lattice parameter ($a$) also remains
the same in films grown on different substrate materials. However, out-of-plane
the $c$-axis is reduced in films grown on less closely lattice-matched
substrates, and increases with the doping level."  2017-06-06  "['Richardson', 'Devine-Stoneman', 'Divitini', 'Vickers', 'Chang', 'Amado', 'Moodera', 'Robinson']"
1706.01851 "In-Plane Magnetization Induced Quantum Anomalous Hall Effect in Atomic
  Crystals of Group-V Elements" cond-mat.mes-hall "We theoretically demonstrate that the in-plane magnetization induced quantum
anomalous Hall effect (QAHE) can be realized in atomic crystal layers of
group-V elements with buckled honeycomb lattice. We first construct a general
tight-binding Hamiltonian with $sp^3$ orbitals via Slater-Koster two-center
approximation, and then numerically show that for weak and strong spin-orbit
couplings the systems harbor QAHEs with Chern numbers of $\mathcal{C}=\pm1$ and
$\pm2$ , respectively. For the $\mathcal{C}=\pm1$ phases, we find the critical
phase-transition magnetization from a trivial insulator to QAHE can become
extremely small by tuning the spin-orbit coupling strength. Although the
resulting band gap is small, it can be remarkably enhanced by orders via
tilting the magnetization slightly away from the in-plane orientation. For the
$\mathcal{C}=\pm2$ phases, we find that the band gap is large enough for the
room-temperature observation. Although the critical magnetization is relatively
large, it can be effectively decreased by applying a strain. All these suggest
that it is experimentally feasible to realize high-temperature QAHE from
in-plane magnetization in atomic crystal layers of group-V elements."  2017-06-06  "['ZHong', 'Ren', 'Han', 'Zhang', 'Qiao']"
1706.01867 "Quantum depletion of a homogeneous Bose-Einstein condensate" "cond-mat.quant-gas physics.atom-ph quant-ph" "We have measured the quantum depletion of an interacting homogeneous
Bose-Einstein condensate, and confirmed the 70-year old theory of N.N.
Bogoliubov. The observed condensate depletion is reversibly tuneable by
changing the strength of the interparticle interactions. Our atomic homogeneous
condensate is produced in an optical-box trap, the interactions are tuned via a
magnetic Feshbach resonance, and the condensed fraction probed by coherent
two-photon Bragg scattering."  2017-06-06  "['Lopes', 'Eigen', 'Navon', 'Clément', 'Smith', 'Hadzibabic']"
1706.01871 "Irreversibility of the renormalization group flow in non-unitary quantum
  field theory" "hep-th cond-mat.stat-mech math-ph math.MP" "We show irreversibility of the renormalization group flow in non-unitary but
${\cal PT}$-invariant quantum field theory in two space-time dimensions. In
addition to unbroken $\mathcal{PT}$-symmetry and a positive energy spectrum, we
assume standard properties of quantum field theory including a local
energy-momentum tensor and relativistic invariance. This generalizes
Zamolodchikov's $c$-theorem to ${\cal PT}$-symmetric hamiltonians. Our proof
follows closely Zamolodchikov's arguments. We show that a function
$c_{\mathrm{eff}}(s)$ of the renormalization group parameter $s$ exists which
is non-negative and monotonically decreasing along renormalization group flows.
Its value at a critical point is the ""effective central charge"" entering the
specific free energy. At least in rational models, this equals
$c_{\mathrm{eff}}=c-24\Delta$, where $c$ is the central charge and $\Delta$ is
the lowest primary field dimension in the conformal field theory which
describes the critical point."  2017-06-06  "['Castro-Alvaredo', 'Doyon', 'Ravanini']"
cond-mat/0110290 "An Alternative Definition of the Equivalent Noise Temperature of Two
  Terminal Networks" "cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.stat-mech" "A hypothetical test resistor is connected in parallel to a two terminal
network. The temperature of the test resistor is tuned, until there is no net
flow of noise energy between the network and the resistor. It is shown that
this temperature is independent of the value of the resistor. It is therefore
suggested that this temperature may serve as an alternative definition of the
equivalent noise temperature of a two terminal network. Quite interestingly,
this equivalent noise temperature of an ideal pn diode equals the actual
temperatue of the diode. Furthermore, if this newly defined equivalent noise
temperature can be estimated for a given network by physical arguments, than
the noise of the network can be calculated provided its current voltage
dependence is known. As an example, the suppression of shot noise due to
recombination in the space charge region of a pn diode is estimated using this
procedure."  2001-10-15 2017-05-29 ['Ritter']
cond-mat/9809122 "Hysteresis, Avalanches, and Noise: Numerical Methods" "cond-mat.dis-nn cond-mat.mtrl-sci cond-mat.stat-mech" "In studying the avalanches and noise in a model of hysteresis loops we have
developed two relatively straightforward algorithms which have allowed us to
study large systems efficiently. Our model is the random-field Ising model at
zero temperature, with deterministic albeit random dynamics. The first
algorithm, implemented using sorted lists, scales in computer time as O(N log
N), and asymptotically uses N (sizeof(double)+ sizeof(int)) bits of memory. The
second algorithm, which never generates the random fields, scales in time as
O(N \log N) and asymptotically needs storage of only one bit per spin, about 96
times less memory than the first algorithm. We present results for system sizes
of up to a billion spins, which can be run on a workstation with 128MB of RAM
in a few hours. We also show that important physical questions were resolved
only with the largest of these simulations." 10.1109/5992.774844 1998-09-07 1999-04-23 "['Kuntz', 'Perkovic', 'Dahmen', 'Roberts', 'Sethna']"
